---
keywords: Investing,Fundamental Analysis
title: 10-K
description: A 10-K is a complete report filed annually by a publicly-exchanged company about its financial performance and is required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
---

# 10-K
## What Is a 10-K?

A 10-K is an exhaustive report filed annually by a publicly-exchanged company about its financial performance and is required by the [U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)](/sec). The report contains considerably more detail than a company's [annual report](/annualreport), which is shipped off its shareholders before an annual meeting to choose [company directors](/boardofdirectors).

A portion of the information a company is required to document in the 10-K incorporates its history, organizational structure, financial statements, earnings per share, auxiliaries, executive compensation, and some other significant data.

The SEC requires this report to keep investors aware of a company's financial condition and to permit them to have sufficient information before they buy or sell shares in the corporation, or before investing in the association's corporate bonds.

## Figuring out 10-Ks

On account of the depth and nature of the information they contain, 10-Ks are genuinely long and will generally be convoluted. In any case, [investors](/investor) need to comprehend that this is quite possibly of the most extensive and most important document a public company can distribute consistently. The more information they can gather from the 10-K, the more they can grasp the company.

The government requires companies to distribute 10-K forms so investors have fundamental information about companies so they can make informed investment choices. This form gives a clearer image of all that a company does and what kinds of risks it faces.

> Investors in the loop are aware that 10-Ks can likewise be recovered by utilizing the company search function through the SEC's EDGAR database.
>

The 10-K incorporates five distinct sections:

- **Business**. This gives an outline of the company's fundamental operations, including its products and services (i.e., how it makes money).
- **Risk factors**. These diagram all possible risks the company faces or may face from here on out. The risks are commonly listed arranged by significance.
- **Chosen financial data**. This section subtleties specific financial information about the company throughout the course of recent years. This section presents to a greater degree a close term perspective on the company's recent performance.
- **The board's conversation and analysis** of financial condition and aftereffects of operations. Otherwise called [MD&A](/mdanalysis), this offers the company a chance to make sense of its business results from the previous fiscal year. This section is where the company can recount to its story in a way that would sound natural to its.
- **Financial statements and beneficial data**. This incorporates the company's examined financial statements including the income statement, [balance sheets](/balancesheet), and statement of cash flows. A letter from the company's independent auditor confirming the scope of their survey is likewise remembered for this section.

A 10-K filing likewise incorporates marked letters from the company's chief executive officer and chief financial officer. In it, the executives swear after swearing to tell the truth that the information remembered for the 10-K is accurate. These letters turned into a requirement after several high-profile cases including accounting fraud following the website bust.

## Where to Find a 10-K

Prominently, 10-K filings are public information and promptly accessible through a number of sources. Truth be told, by far most of companies remember them for the [Investor Relations](/investorrelations) section of their website. The information remembered for a 10-K can be challenging to travel through, however the more comfortable investors become with the design and the type of information included, it will likely become simpler to recognize the main subtleties.

## 10-K Filing Deadlines

Filing cutoff times for the 10-K fluctuate in light of the size of the company. As indicated by the SEC, companies with a public [float](/float) — shares issued to the public that are accessible to exchange — of $700 at least million must file their 10-K in the span of 60 days after the finish of their fiscal year. Companies with a float between $75 million and $700 million have 75 days, while companies with under $75 million in their float have 90 days.

## Forms 10-Q and 8-K

Along with the 10-K, the SEC requires that public companies routinely file forms 10-Q and 8-K.

Form 10-Q must be submitted to the SEC on a quarterly basis. This form is an extensive report of a company's performance and incorporates important information about its financial position. Unlike the 10-K, the information in the 10-Q is normally unaudited. The company is simply required to file it three times a year as the 10-K is filed in the fourth quarter.

The form 8-K however is required by the SEC at whatever point companies report major occasions of which shareholders must be made aware. These occasions might incorporate (however aren't limited to) sales, acquisitions, delistings, flights, and appointment of executives, as well as changes in a company's status or control, bankruptcies, information about operations, assets, and some other important news.

## Features
- Information in the 10-K incorporates corporate history, financial statements, earnings per share, and some other significant data.
- The 10-K is a valuable device for investors to make important choices about their investments.
- A 10-K is an exhaustive report filed annually by public companies about their financial performance.
- The report is required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is undeniably more point by point than the annual report.
