---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 1040
description: Form 1040 is the standard U.S. individual tax return form that taxpayers use to file their annual income tax returns with the IRS.
---

# Form 1040
## What Is Form 1040: U.S. Individual Tax Return?

Form 1040 is the standard [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) form that individual taxpayers use to file their annual income [tax returns](/taxreturn). The form contains sections that expect taxpayers to uncover their taxable income for the year to decide if extra taxes are owed or whether the filer will receive a tax refund.

## Understanding Form 1040: U.S. Individual Tax Return

Form 1040 should be filed with the IRS by April 15 in many years. Each and every individual who procures income over a certain threshold must file an income tax return with the IRS (businesses have various forms to report their profits).

The IRS upgraded the 1040 form for the 2018 tax year after passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), and it examined, as per the agency, "ways of further developing the 1040 filing experience." The new, more limited 1040 was charged as easing communication of future tax-regulation changes and lessening the number of 1040s from which taxpayers must pick. The new 1040 form incorporates two pages to finish up which are accessible on the IRS website. Form 1040 can be sent in or e-filed.

Form 1040 prompts tax filers for information on their [filing status](/filingstatus, for example, name, address, Social Security number (some information on one's spouse may likewise be required), and the number of wards. The form likewise gets some information about entire year wellbeing coverage and whether the taxpayer wishes to contribute $3 to presidential campaign funds.
<!--82010D953E9F338F461BAE5740F521BE-->
The 1040 income section requests that the filer report wages, salary, taxable interest, capital gains, pensions, Social Security benefits, and different types of income. It likewise permits filers to claim the new higher standard deduction presented with the Tax and Job Cuts Act. For the tax year 2021, which will be filed in 2022, the numbers are as per the following:

- Single or married filing separately, $12,550
- Married filing jointly or a qualifying widow(er), $25,100
- Head of household, $18,800

An extra deduction might be taken by the people who are age 65 or more seasoned or blind (see "Age/Blindness" on the first page of Form 1040):

- Single and not widowed, $1,700
- Married filing jointly, $1,350 for every spouse who is 65 or more seasoned or blind.

For tax year 2022 (to be filed in 2023), these deductions are as per the following:

- Single or married filing separately, $12,950
- [Married filing jointly](/mfj) or a qualifying widow(er), $25,900
- Head of household, $19,400

The new tax legislation disposed of numerous deductions, including for unreimbursed employee expenses, tax-readiness fees, and moving for a job (except for military on active duty).

The new 1040 purposes what the IRS terms a "building block" approach and permits taxpayers to add just the schedules they need to their tax return. A few individuals may now have to file at least one of six new supplemental schedules with their 1040 as well as well established schedules for such things as business income or loss, contingent upon whether they're claiming tax credits or owe extra taxes. Numerous individual taxpayers, be that as it may, just have to file a 1040 and no schedules.

Taxpayers who receive [dividends](/profit) that total more than $1,500, for example, must file Schedule B, which is the section for reporting taxable interest and [ordinary dividends](/ordinary-dividends).

Also, the individuals who need to claim itemized deductions on their 1040 need to complete [Schedule A](/schedulea). The IRS additionally has several worksheets to assist taxpayers with ascertaining the value of certain credits or deductions.

## Types of Form 1040: U.S. Individual Tax Return

Taxpayers in certain situations might have to file an alternate variation of the 1040 form rather than the standard rendition. Below are the options.

### Form 1040-NR

An assortment of [nonresident aliens](/nonresidentalien) or their delegates need to file this form:

- The people who are engaged in trade or business in the United States
- Delegates of a deceased person who might have needed to file a Form 1040-NR
- The people who address an estate or trust that needed to file a 1040-NR

> Form 1040NR-EZ has been supplanted with Form 1040-NR.
>

Too, the IRS additionally creates the 1040-SS and 1040-PR. The 1040-SS is for occupants of American Samoa, the CNMI, Guam, Puerto Rico, or the U.S. Virgin Islands who have net self-employment income and don't need to file Form 1040 with the U.S. Form 1040-PR is the Spanish-language equivalent of Form 1040-SS.

### Form 1040-ES

This form is utilized to figure and pay estimated quarterly taxes. The estimated tax applies to income that isn't subject to withholding, which incorporates earnings from self-employment, interest, dividends, and rents. This may likewise incorporate unemployment compensation, pension income, and the taxable portion of Social Security benefits.

### Form 1040-V

This is a statement going with a taxpayer's payment for any balance on the "Sum you owe" line of the 1040 or 1040-NR.

### Form 1040-X

In the event that a filer commits an error or neglects to remember information for any 1040 form, [Form 1040-X](/form1040x) is utilized for making changes to recently filed 1040s.

### Form 1040-SR

The IRS presented another 1040 form for seniors in 2019, Form 1040-SR. Changes incorporate a bigger text style, no overshadowing (concealed sections can be difficult to peruse), and a standard deduction chart that incorporates the extra standard deduction for seniors. Seniors who finish up their taxes online won't notice the difference, yet the individuals who do it on paper ought to benefit.

## Features
- The form decides whether extra taxes are due or on the other hand on the off chance that the filer will receive a tax refund.
- Taxpayers might have to file supplemental tax 1040 forms relying upon their situation.
- A filer likewise needs to report wages, salary, taxable interest, capital gains, pensions, Social Security benefits, and different types of income.
- Form 1040 is what individual taxpayers use to file their taxes with the IRS.
- Personal information, for example, name, address, Social Security number, and the number of wards, are requested on Form 1040.
