---
keywords: Personal Finance,Home Ownership,Mortgage
title: 2/28 Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (2/28 ARM)
description: A 2/28 adjustable-rate mortgage (2/28 ARM) keeps a low fixed interest rate for a two-year period, after which the rate drifts semiannually.
---

# 2/28 Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (2/28 ARM)
## What Is a 2/28 Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (2/28 ARM)?

A 2/28 [adjustable-rate mortgage](/arm) (2/28 ARM) is a type of 30-year home loan that has an initial two-year [fixed interest rate](/fixedinterestrate) period. After this two-year period, the rate floats in light of a [index rate](/arm_index) plus a [margin](/armmargin).

The initial teaser rate is ordinarily below the average rate of conventional mortgages, yet the adjustable rate can consequently rise essentially. Since banks don't get a lot of cash-flow on the initial teaser rate, 2/28 ARMs incorporate weighty [prepayment penalties](/prepaymentpenalty) during the initial two years.

## Grasping 2/28 Adjustable-Rate Mortgages (2/28 ARMs)

The 2/28 ARMs became well known during the real estate boom of the mid 2000s, while taking off prices put [conventional mortgage](/conventionalmortgage) payments far off for some purchasers. For instance, a $300,000 conventional 30-year mortgage would carry regularly scheduled payments of $1,610. Be that as it may, a 2/28 ARM with an initial teaser rate of 3% would require regularly scheduled payments of just $1,265.

Other ARM structures exist, for example, [5/1](/5-1_arm), 5/5, and [5/6 ARMs](/5-6_hybrid_arm), which feature a five-year starting period followed by a rate adjustment like clockwork or at regular intervals, separately. Quite, 15/15 ARMs adjust once following 15 years and afterward stay fixed until the end of the loan.

More uncommon are the 2/28 and [3/27 ARMs](/327arm). With the former, the fixed interest rate applies for just the initial two years, followed by 28 years of adjustable rates; with the last option, the fixed rate is for a considerable length of time, with adjustments in every one of the following 27 years. In these cases, rates adjust semiannually.

## Likely Pitfalls of 2/28 ARMs

The potential dilemma of a 2/28 ARM is that following two years, the rate is adjusted at regular intervals, commonly up, by an ARM margin well beyond an index rate, for example, the [federal funds rate](/federalfundsrate) or the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). 2/28 ARMs have some underlying safety features, for example, a [lifetime interest rate cap](/lifetimecap) and limits on how much the rate can increase, or decline, with every period. In any case, even with caps, homeowners can face stunning payment spikes in [volatile](/unpredictability) markets.

In the model given above in the $300,000 30-year 3% ARM 2/28 loan, in the event that the SOFR is 2.7 and the margin is 1.5 following two years, then, at that point, the interest would increase by 4.2%, to a total of 7.2%. This 7.2% rate could be well above current conventional mortgage rates. The mortgage holder's regularly scheduled payment would increase from $1,265 to $2,036 — a 61% increase.

During the boom, numerous homeowners failed to comprehend how an apparently small rate increase could decisively support their regularly scheduled payment. And, surprisingly, the individuals who were completely aware of the risks saw 2/28 ARMs as a short-term financing vehicle. The thought was to exploit the low teaser rate, then [refinance](/refinance) following two years to either a conventional mortgage or on the other hand, on the off chance that their credit was not sufficient for that, to another adjustable mortgage. Given the spiking real estate prices, this kicked the debt not too far off. To many, this seemed OK since, all things considered, the borrower's [home equity](/home_equity) was rising fast.

Inconvenience accompanied the [market collapse](/credit-emergency) in 2008. Home values plunged. Numerous owners of 2/28 ARMs found themselves unfit to refinance, make their payments, or sell their homes for the value of the outstanding loan. The rash of [foreclosures](/abandonment) prompted stricter loan standards. Today, banks all the more carefully assess a borrower's ability to make adjustable-rate payments.

## Features
- Homeowners generally appreciate lower mortgage payments during the early on period however are subject to interest rate risk a while later.
- At the point when ARMs adjust, interest rates change in light of their marginal rates and the indexes to which they're tied.
- 2/28 adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs) offer a starting fixed rate for a considerable length of time, after which the interest rate adjusts semiannually for 28 additional years.
