---
keywords: Personal Finance,Home Ownership,Mortgage
title: 3/27 Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM)
description: A 3/27 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) is a 30-year home loan with a fixed interest rate for the initial three years.
---

# 3/27 Adjustable-Rate Mortgage (ARM)

A 3/27 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) is a 30-year loan that conveys a fixed interest rate for the initial three years, then, at that point, a variable rate for the excess 27 years. Borrowers frequently utilize a 3/27 ARM as a short-term financing vehicle that they can later refinance into a mortgage with additional favorable terms.

## How a 3/27 ARM Works

[Adjustable-rate mortgages (ARMs)](/arm) are a type of home loan where the interest rate applied to the outstanding balance shifts over the lifetime of the loan. With an ARM, the initial interest rate is fixed for a while. From that point forward, the rate resets periodically, at yearly, semiannual, or even month to month spans.

ARMs contrast from fixed-rate mortgages, the other essential mortgage type, which charge a set rate of interest that continues as before for the entirety of the loan.

3/27 ARMs are a sort of hybrid. For the initial three years, they have a fixed interest rate, which is generally lower than the current rates on 30-year conventional mortgages. Yet, from that point onward, and for the leftover 27 years of the loan, their interest rate will change in light of a benchmark index, like the yield on one-year U.S. [Treasury bills](/treasurybill).

The lender likewise adds a [margin](/armmargin) on top of the index to set the interest rate that the borrower will actually pay. The total is known as the [fully indexed interest rate](/fullyindexedinterestrate). This rate is frequently substantially higher than the initial three-year fixed interest rate, albeit 3/27 ARMs generally have caps on how rapidly they can increase.

Commonly, the interest rate on a 3/27 ARM won't increase over 2% per adjustment period, which can happen each six or 12 months. That means the rate can increase by two full percentage points (not 2% of the current interest rate). Thus, for instance, the rate could go from 4% to 6% in a single adjustment period.

There could likewise be a life-of-the-loan cap set at 5% or more. In that case, the interest rate on a mortgage that began at 4% could go no higher than 9%, paying little heed to what occurs with the index on which it is based.

## 3/27 ARM Example

Say a borrower takes out a $250,000 3/27 ARM at an initial fixed rate of 3.5%. For the initial three years, their month to month mortgage payment will be $1,123.

Then how about we accept that following three years, the benchmark interest rate is 3% and the bank's margin is 2.5%. That amounts to a fully indexed rate of 5.5%.

On the off chance that the borrower actually has the 3/27 ARM and hasn't refinanced into an alternate mortgage, their regularly scheduled payment will presently be $1,483, an increase of $360.

> To stay away from payment shock when the interest rate starts to change, borrowers with 3/27 ARMs ought to aim to refinance the mortgage inside the initial three years.
>
## Risks of a 3/27 ARM

The most serious risks for borrowers with a 3/27 mortgage are that they will not have the option to refinance their loan before the adjustable rate kicks in and that interest rates will have shot up meanwhile. That could occur assuming their credit score is too low, in the event that their home has fallen in value, or basically assuming that market powers have caused interest rates to rise across the board.

In that event, they would be left with the adjustable rate, which could mean impressively higher regularly scheduled payments, as in the model above.

## ARM Prepayment Penalties

Borrowers ought to likewise know that ARMs, including 3/27 mortgages, may carry [prepayment penalties](/prepaymentpenalty), which can make refinancing expensive and nullify the point of taking out an ARM fully intent on switching to an alternate loan in a couple of years.

The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) proposes that borrowers check the lender's Truth in Lending Act disclosure for any prepayment punishments before they sign a contract.

"Keep in mind, numerous parts of the loan are negotiable," the CFPB notes. "Request a loan that doesn't have a prepayment penalty assuming that is important to you. In the event that you could do without the terms of a loan and the lender will not arrange, you can continuously shop around for an alternate lender with terms that better suit your requirements."

## Is a 3/27 ARM a Good Investment?

A 3/27 ARM could be a decent decision for you in the event that you're searching for a loan with generally low regularly scheduled payments for the initial several years. That could make buying a home more affordable assuming that your budget is now extended or could give you an extra cash to spend on home repairs, decorations, or different purposes, compared with a more costly loan.

Notwithstanding, you'll need to be sensibly certain that you'll be strategically set up to refinance toward the finish of the initial three-year period. That means, for instance, that you'll have a strong [credit score](/credit_score) and a reliable source of income by then.

A 3/27 ARM is certainly not a smart thought in the event that there's a strong possibility that you will not have the option to refinance (or sell the home) during those initial three years and the new, adjustable-rate payments would be too much for you.

## Features
- A 3/27 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) is a 30-year mortgage with a three-year fixed interest rate period.
- The fixed interest rate is generally lower than the current rates on 30-year conventional mortgages.
- Since their regularly scheduled payments can rise fundamentally once the interest rate changes, borrowers ought to plan carefully before taking out a 3/27 ARM to ensure it will in any case be affordable.
- Following three years, and for the excess 27 years of the loan, the interest rate will float in light of an index, like the yield on one-year U.S. Treasury bills.
## FAQ
### What is a 3/27 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM)?
A 3/27 adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) charges a fixed interest rate for the initial three years, followed by a variable interest rate for the leftover 27 years. Since it consolidates the highlights of a fixed-rate mortgage and an adjustable-rate mortgage, it is at times alluded to as a [hybrid ARM](/hybridarm).
### Is a 3/27 ARM right for me?
In the event that you plan to sell the home or refinance it inside the initial three years, then, at that point, a 3/27 ARM could seem OK for you. Nonetheless, search for a 3/27 ARM with no prepayment punishments. If not, a prepayment penalty could make it expensive to escape the mortgage.
### What are the benefits of a 3/27 ARM?
A 3/27 ARM is probably going to have a low interest rate for the initial three years. However, that rate can rise substantially starting in the fourth year.
