---
keywords: Economy,Fiscal Policy,Tax Laws
title: 501(c)
description: 501(c) is an assignment under the United States Internal Revenue Code that presents tax-exempt status to nonprofit organizations.
---

# 501(c)
## What Is 501(c)?

The 501(c) is a subsection under the United States [Internal Revenue Code](/internal-revenue-code) (IRC). The subsection connects with nonprofit organizations and tax regulation; explicitly, it distinguishes which nonprofit organizations are exempt from paying [federal income tax](/federal_income_tax). The term 501(c) is in many cases utilized as shorthand to allude to organizations conceded legal status under this subsection.

## Understanding 501(c)

Under subsection 501(c) there are various sections that portray the various types of exempt organizations, as per their purpose and operations.

The most common include:

- 501(c)(1): Any corporation that is organized under an act of Congress that is exempt from federal income tax
- 501(c)(2): [Corporations](/corporation) that hold a title of property for exempt organizations
- 501(c)(3): Corporations, funds, or establishments that operate for strict, charitable, logical, artistic, or instructive purposes
- 501(c)(4): Nonprofit organizations that advance social welfare
- 501(c)(5): Labor, agricultural, or plant associations
- 501(c)(6): Business associations, [chambers of commerce](/office of-commerce), and so on, that are not organized for profit
- 501(c)(7): Recreational organizations

> Bunches that could fit the designated categories must in any case apply for classification as 501(c) organizations and meet each of the expectations required by the IRS. Tax exemption isn't automatic, no matter what the idea of the organization.
>
### 501(c)(3) Organizations

The [501(c)(3) organization](/501c3-organizations) is presumably the most natural tax category illustrated in Section 501(c)(3) of the IRC. It covers the kind of nonprofits that individuals commonly come into contact with, and give money to (see Special Considerations, below).

By and large, there are three types of elements that are eligible for 501(c)(3) status: charitable organizations, places of worship/strict substances, and [private foundations](/privatefoundation).

## Different Types of 501(c) Organizations

The 501(c) assignment has expanded over the long run to envelop more types of organizations.

Different organizations that meet all requirements for listing under this assignment incorporate fraternal beneficiary societies that operate under the hotel system and accommodate the payment of life, illness, and different benefits for its individuals and wards. Educator's retirement fund associations are incorporated too, insofar as they are neighborhood in nature and none of their net earnings develop for the benefit of a private shareholder. Kind life insurance associations that are nearby may likewise meet all requirements for this assignment. Certain mutual cooperative electric and telephone companies could likewise be classified under 501(c). Nonprofit, center wellbeing insurers could likewise qualify.

Graveyard companies that are owned and operated for the exclusive benefit of their individuals or are not operated for profit could receive this assignment. [Credit unions](/creditunion) that don't have capital stock organized, insurers — beside life insurance companies — with gross receipts that are under $600,000 and different trusts for such purposes as giving supplement unemployment benefits and pensions can receive this assignment and exemptions assuming they meet every one of the underlying criteria.

There are likewise approvals for organizations whose enrollment is comprised of current and former individuals from the armed powers of the United States or their companions, widows, relatives, and helper units in their support.

> Tax-exempt organizations must file certain archives to keep up with their status. IRS Publication 557 makes sense of those requirements.
>
## Special Considerations

As well as being tax-exempt themselves, 501(c) organizations offer a tax advantage to other people: A portion of donations they receive might be deductible from a taxpayer's [adjusted gross income](/agi) (AGI). Organizations falling under section 501(c)(3) — which are basically good cause and instructive or social-welfare-orientated nonprofits — are frequently qualified to offer this benefit to benefactors.

As a general rule, an individual who organizes [deductions](/tax-deduction) on their tax return might deduct contributions to most charitable organizations up to half (60% for cash contributions) of their adjusted gross income figured regardless of net operating [loss carrybacks](/losscarryback). Individuals generally may deduct charitable contributions to different organizations up to 30% of their adjusted gross income.

A cause or nonprofit must have 501(c)3 status on the off chance that you plan to deduct your gift to it on your federal tax return. The organization itself can frequently let you know what kinds of donations are deductible, and how much — for instance, on the off chance that you buy a one-year exhibition hall enrollment for $100, $50 may be deductible. The IRS offers an exempt organization database that permits you to check an organization's status.

## Features
- Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code assigns certain types of organizations as tax-exempt — they pay no federal income tax.
- Donations to certain qualified tax-exempt organizations might be deductible from a taxpayer's income.
- Common tax-exempt organizations incorporate foundations, government elements, advocacy gatherings, instructive and creative gatherings, and strict substances.
- The 501(c)(3) organization is likely the most natural entity.
