---
keywords: Business,Marketing Essentials
title: Affiliate Network
description: An affiliate network is a group of companies that sometimes offer viable or complementary products and will frequently pass leads to one another.
---

# Affiliate Network
## What Is an Affiliate Network?

An affiliate network is a group of associated (or affiliated) companies that sometimes offer viable or complementary products and will frequently pass leads to one another. On occasion, affiliated companies may not operate in a similar industry. They might offer cross-special arrangements, empowering clients who have used their services to investigate the services offered by an affiliate. A company hoping to obtain new customers will pay individuals from its affiliate network for the sales leads that they give.

> Affiliate networks can assist businesses with building a database of contact data of possible customers.
>
## Understanding Affiliate Networks

Companies use affiliate networks in the event that they don't have the accessible resources to make a critical outbound sales exertion, on the off chance that they don't have a substantial advertising presence or on the other hand if they have any desire to tap into groups of expected customers in an unrelated industry. Affiliate networks can permit a business to zero in on its core competencies as opposed to on getting the contact data of closely involved individuals.

## Illustration of an Affiliate Network

For instance, Dave's Collision, Mike's Tire, and Andy's Attorney Services are an affiliate network. All of the business owners know one another and are certain the others are specialists in their field and treat clients fairly. In spite of the fact that they offer various services, they are possibly related services, setting out a freedom for sales leads or business references to be passed between the businesses. Someone who comes to Dave's Collision might have been in an accident and may require new tires or could be harmed and require the services of an attorney.

## Special Considerations

In the online world, an affiliate network comprises of brands that team up with third-party online sales channels to advance their goods and services. These affiliate networks normally work through a system of connection sharing. Individuals share connects to other individuals' products and a small commission for sales or web traffic is generated by their substance when sales are made.

Dissimilar to standard online ads, brands participating in affiliate networks are not responsible for creating the promotion content. Rather, the affiliates make the actual substance. As a brand, companies are obliged to make their affiliate marketing program as alluring as could really be expected.

There is a great many partners that can fall under the affiliate marketing umbrella, which makes building a dependable and pertinent network an important priority for the present brands. This beginnings with paying a quality commission rate; and what is considered a fair rate will regularly differ by industry.

An effective affiliate network makes a mutually beneficial arrangement for all parties included. Numerous organizations could dip their toe in to investigate a secondary source of income, or they might bet everything, determined to see their affiliate network become a primary income stream.

Affiliate networks work. As per a survey by the Forrester Group, a monstrous 81% of sponsors use them as part of their marketing. The explanation is that online consumers have become more critical of online substance. In that capacity, they've progressively come to value content offering what they see gives them the best pertinence and engagement.

## Features
- They might offer cross-special arrangements, empowering clients who have used their services to investigate the services offered by an affiliate.
- In the online world, an affiliate network comprises of brands that team up with third-party online sales channels to advance their goods and services.
- Online affiliate networks utilize a system of connection sharing to function.
- An affiliate network is a group of companies that offer viable or complementary products and will frequently pass leads to one another.
