---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Ratios
title: After-Tax Return on Assets
description: After-tax return on assets is a financial ratio that shows the percentage of after-tax income generated by a company&#39;s investment in assets.
---

# After-Tax Return on Assets
## The thing Is Pursuing Tax Return on Assets?

After-tax return on assets (ROA) is a financial ratio used to measure after-tax income earned by a company from its assets. After-tax [ROA](/returnonassets) compares after-tax income to average total assets (ATA) and is communicated as a percentage. A company that earned $100 of after-tax income on $400 of ATA would have a 25% After-tax ROA. The after-tax ROA formula is: (after-tax income \u00f7 ATA) x 100.

## Understanding After-Tax Return on Assets

[After-tax income](/aftertaxincome) is the income left after revenues are decreased by expenses, deductions, and taxes. In any case, after-tax income is an umbrella term covering after-tax income processed to incorporate or bar various things of income, expense, deduction, or taxes.

After-Tax ROA is a performance measure. After-tax ROA figured with net income (NI) measures performance broadly. After-tax ROA figured with adjusted after-tax income measures parts of performance outlined by specific income things.

Instances of calibrated after-tax income are net income, net operating profit after taxes (NOPAT), and net income after taxes (NIAT). We should take apart them to perceive what their income varies and how these differences mean for the measurement measured by After-tax ROA.

## Types of After-Tax ROA
### Net Income (NI)

[Net income](/netincome) (NI) is a broad range after-tax income helpful to you, as company president, to assess the overall productivity of your company's total investment in assets at generating net income. The calculation is: After-Tax ROA = (NI \u00f7 ATA) x 100.

### Net Operating Profit After Taxes (NOPAT)

[Net operating profit after taxes](/nopat) (NOPAT) is core operating income, net of taxes. NOPAT bars income earned from [debt-financed](/debtfinancing) assets. NOPAT is helpful to company managers as it evaluates the operating productivity of the assets at generating after-tax operating income. NOPAT is valuable to company shareholders as it measures the after-tax profit generated by value finance assets.

NOPAT can be figured utilizing [earnings before interest and taxes](/ebit) (EBIT) adjusted to eliminate the tax shield benefit (i.e., add back tax expense decreased by interest payments made on company debt). The calculation is: After-Tax ROA = (NOPAT \u00f7 ATA) x 100 = [EBIT x (1-Tax Rate)] \u00f7 ATA x 100.

### Net Income After Taxes (NIAT)

[Net income after taxes](/net-income-after-taxes-niat) (NIAT) is the sum of all revenues minus all expenses, including the cost of goods sold, depreciation, interest, and taxes. NIAT is found on the [income statement](/incomestatement's) last line. NIAT is helpful to you, as a company contender, since it is the company's [bottom line](/bottomline).

The calculation is: After-tax ROA = (NIAT\u00f7 ATA) x 100. As a contender looking at companies or industries, you might track down NIAT a more helpful measure as a percentage of total sales. The calculation is: After-Tax ROA = Net Profit Margin x Asset Turnover = (Net profit \u00f7 Revenue) x (Sales \u00f7 Assets) = (NIAT \u00f7 Revenue) x (Sales \u00f7 Assets).

As a company manager seeking to improve operating performance, the NIAT can be utilized to check the operating cycle's impact on after-tax economic profitability. The calculation is: After-Tax ROA = Return on Sales x Asset turnover = (NIAT \u00f7 Sales) x (Sales \u00f7 Assets) = [(EBIT x (1-T))] \u00f7 Sales x (Sales \u00f7 Assets).

## After-Tax ROA versus Benchmarks

Keep in mind, after-tax ROA has meaning just in setting. That is, it must be compared to the performance of a [benchmark](/benchmark) like historical company, contender, or industry after-tax ROA or trends. An after-tax ROA higher and trending up quicker than a benchmark recommend that the assets are generating after-tax income more proficiently than the benchmark.

## Features
- After-tax [r](/returnonassets)eturn on assets (ROA) compares after-tax income to average total assets (ATA) and is communicated as a percentage.
- It measures the after-tax income earned by a company from its assets.
- After-Tax ROA is a performance measure and can be measured with net income, net operating profit after taxes (NOPAT), and net income after taxes (NIAT).
