---
keywords: Investing,Cryptocurrency,Cryptocurrency Strategy and Education,Crypto,Strategy and Education
title: Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) Miner
description: An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) miner is a computerized gadget intended for the sole purpose of mining a cryptocurrency.
---

# Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) Miner
As the name proposes, ASICs are [integrated circuits](/integrated-circuit) that have been intended to serve a specific use case, rather than the broadly useful circuits, like the CPUs that power our computers and mobile gadgets.
In certain conditions, there are simple computing tasks that don't need the financial and computational overhead that a broadly useful CPU would offer of real value. All things considered, an ASIC can be utilized as a lot simpler and efficient alternative (both in terms of cost and energy).
In the world of digital forms of money, the term ASIC is widely used to allude to the particular hardware that are being developed and consistently improved by companies like Bitmain and Halong Mining. These hardware are planned with the sole aim of mining [Bitcoin](/bitcoin) (or other [cryptocurrencies](/cryptocurrency)). There are a few coins that can't be really mined utilizing ASIC miners and, thusly, might be alluded to as [ASIC-resistant](/asic-resistant) cryptographic forms of money.
In short, [mining](/mining) is a cycle that comprises of playing out a heap of hashing functions until a substantial hash output is delivered. The miner that finds a substantial hash involves it as proof for their work, which awards them the right to approve the next block of transactions and collect the block reward.
In spite of the fact that ASICs can be profoundly efficient, being restricted to a specific use case makes them totally pointless for doing anything more. In addition, the continuous mechanical advances in the cryptocurrency space bring new ASIC models that rapidly render more seasoned plans totally unprofitable.
There is likewise a strong discussion concerning the centralization of mining power brought about by ASICs. From one perspective, they give the genuinely necessary hashpower to getting and confirming blockchains, however they likewise incorporate the power of mining into the hands of a couple of mining companies who can stand to buy great many ASICs to set up and run large [mining farms](/mining-homestead) and mining pools.

## Features
- Bitcoin miners audit and check previous bitcoin transactions and make new blocks with the goal that the data can be added to the blockchain.
- As a general rule, an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) is optimized to process just a single function or set of related functions.
- An application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) miner is a computerized gadget or hardware that involves ASICs for the sole purpose of mining bitcoin or another cryptocurrency.
## FAQ
### What Are ASIC-Resistant Coins?
ASIC-resistant coins are digital forms of money with ASIC-resistant calculations. Mining such digital forms of money with ASIC mining equipment is for all intents and purposes inconceivable, and even if one attempts to do as such, the returns would be incredibly measly. The fundamental reasoning for ASIC-resistant coins is to safeguard the decentralization of their blockchains, which was one of the core values supporting the creation of Bitcoin. As of now, a couple of private mining ranches and mining contract suppliers are the fundamental source of a large extent of Bitcoin's total network hash rate, which is in opposition to Bitcoin's core principle of decentralization.
### What Is the Difference Between ASIC Mining and GPU Mining?
ASIC mining machines are developed for the sole purpose of mining a specific cryptocurrency like Bitcoin or Litecoin. GPU mining includes the utilization of a GPU, for example, those sold by NVIDIA or AMD for mining digital currencies. The conspicuous benefits of GPU mining are that the hardware is altogether less expensive than the equipment required for ASIC mining, and power consumption is lower too. In any case, in light of the fact that GPUs have different applications in gaming and computer display, they are substantially less efficient in mining digital currencies than ASIC miners are.
### What Is Bitcoin Mining?
Mining is the method involved with dealing with the blockchain and furthermore making new bitcoins. The job of bitcoin miners is to survey and check previous bitcoin transactions and afterward to make another block so the data can be added to the blockchain. The mining system includes taking care of complex mathematical issues utilizing natural hash functions linked to the [block](/block-bitcoin-block) that contains the transaction data. Different bitcoin miners contend seriously with one another to tackle an important mathematical riddle. The principal miner to find the solution to the riddle can approve the transaction or add the bitcoin to the block. Every champ in the bitcoin mining "lottery" gets a reward (a certain amount of bitcoin). The reward incorporates all of the transaction fees for the transactions in that block, which spurs miners to collect whatever number transactions into a block as could reasonably be expected to increase their reward.
