---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Fixed Income Essentials,Fixed Income
title: Authority Bond
description: An authority bond is a security issued by a corporate or government agency to finance the operations of a revenue-creating public business.
---

# Authority Bond
## What Is an Authority Bond?

An authority bond is a [debt security](/debtsecurity) issued by an authority — like a government agency or a partnership — shaped to deal with a public enterprise. A public enterprise is a business organization that is either wholly or mostly owned by the state and controlled through a public authority. Authority bonds are likewise alluded to as neighborhood authority bonds.

The purpose of an authority bond is to finance the operations of a revenue-producing public business. Investors buy into authority bonds for a stated period, which permits the financed project to be completed and start earning revenue; after this period, the bond will pay interest at a predetermined rate. Buyers of authority bonds have a claim to the business' revenue, which fills in as the bond's [yield](/yield). (Yield alludes to the earnings generated and realized on an investment over a specific period of time.)

## Understanding Authority Bonds

Authority bonds are issued by an authority, like a government agency, public organization, or a company. The bond's security is from the proceeds of the project it finances.

While bonds, as a general rule, are issued to finance governmental and metro agencies and infrastructure, the funds from an authority bond are applied to fund one specific project.

Authority bonds are generally viewed as okay investments, albeit the risk changes by the issuer. The risk of an authority bond relates with the risk of the specific project it finances.

While municipal bonds will generally finance okay infrastructure projects for the community at large, authority bonds might fund projects that have differing degrees of appeal and may not earn the projected [revenue](/revenue).

## Authority Bonds versus Municipal Bonds versus General Obligation (GO) Bonds

Authority bonds are like municipal bonds. Both of these types of bonds are issued by related elements for similar purposes. And keeping in mind that there is some overlap in the types of projects they finance, there are fundamental differences also.

Municipal bonds will generally be issued for infrastructure projects, while authority bonds are regularly issued for community organizations or extensions of organizations.

For instance, a municipal bond may be issued to assist with funding the building of another bridge, and bondholders may be paid utilizing the costs from the new bridge. An authority bond may be issued for another wing on a community diversion center, and the bondholders for this project may be paid with funds generated by participation fees or day-pass fees.

Another critical difference is authority bonds incorporate [margin](/margin) protections. Margin protections mean bondholders have a guarantee they haven't overpaid for the bonds. This guarantee lessens bondholders' risk on the grounds that the lower price means the project doesn't need to earn as much revenue to pay back the bondholders.

Authority bonds are a type of [revenue bond](/revenuebond). Revenue bonds that finance pay creating projects are subsequently secured by a predetermined revenue source. Normally, revenue bonds can be issued by any government agency or fund that is managed in the way of a business, for example, substances having both [operating revenues](/operating-revenue) and expenses.

Revenue bonds can measure up to [general obligation](/generalobligationbond) (GO) bonds. A GO bond is a [municipal bond](/municipalbond) backed exclusively by the credit and taxing power of the responsible jurisdiction (instead of the revenue from a given project). GO bonds can be repaid through an assortment of tax sources. Municipal bonds are once in a while revenue bonds (however not consistently).

## Features
- Buyers of authority bonds have a claim to the business' revenue, which fills in as the bond's yield.
- Investors buy into authority bonds for a stated period, which permits the financed project to be completed and start earning revenue; after this period, the bond will pay interest at a predetermined rate.
- An authority bond is a debt security issued by an authority — like a government agency or a company — shaped to deal with a public enterprise.
- While municipal bonds will generally finance okay infrastructure projects for the community at large, authority bonds might fund projects that have differing degrees of appeal and may not earn the projected revenue.
- The purpose of an authority bond is to finance the operations of a revenue-producing public business.
