---
keywords: Investing,Financial Technology and Automated Investing,Automated Investing,FinTech
title: B2B Robo-Advisor
description: A B2B robo-advisor is a digital automated portfolio management platform that is utilized by financial advisors.
---

# B2B Robo-Advisor
## What is a B2B Robo-Advisor

A B2B robo-advisor is a digital automated portfolio management platform that is utilized by [financial advisors](/financial-advisor). All the more officially known as a "[business-to-business](/btob) robo-advisor,' such automated investment platforms are offered by traditional brokerages and investment advisory firms to improve the client experience by remembering their investors for the digital investment circle.

## Breaking Down B2B Robo-Advisor

The [fintech](/fintech) revolution has presented a ton of disruptive innovations into the financial industry. One of these revolutionary technology is the [robo-advisor](/roboadvisor-roboadviser) which plans to give effectively open financial products at insignificant costs to the users. The robo-advisor platform is an algorithmic system that automatically makes a portfolio for its client in light of the client's risk tolerance, current income, time horizon, and most different metrics that traditional advisors would ordinarily think about. Robo-advisors oversee taxable accounts and retirement accounts in investment portfolios generally limited to exchange-traded funds (ETFs). As well as developing an ETF portfolio, robo-advisors likewise often rebalance the portfolio, reinvest dividends, and perform tax loss harvesting measures for their clients. While it appears to be that robo-advisors have everything necessary to arrive at the majority, the sector is tormented by high acquisition costs for clients that could run to about $1,000 per client. The high acquisition costs combined with the developing opportunities inside the sector has prompted a number of Registered Investment Advisors (RIA) and brokers matching up their services with robo advisor platforms, and vice versa. This rising joint effort has changed the initial B2C robo advisor innovation to another developing group of B2B robo-advisors.

## B2B Robo-Advisor in Practice

B2B robo advisors comprise of a network of RIAs and brokers that try to exploit the low-cost robo advisory platforms, and give these low costs to their clients. Likewise, by consolidating robo-advisors, financial advisors are able to incorporate their laid out clients into the ruling financial tech world. B2B robo advisory platforms operate in a number of ways including having a customized platform that gels with the operations and necessities of the financial institution that adjusts it, being fabricated specifically for an existing non-discretionary platform, and collaborating with financial advisors that can coordinate the B2B robo-advisor into their daily operations.

Envestnet's B2B robo advisor, Upside Advisor, operates as a RIA and [fiduciary](/fiduciary), and acts as an advisor to other RIAs. As a fiduciary, they can execute discretionary trades for financial advisors who need a hands-off approach in dealing with their clients' portfolios. The B2B platform gives an automated trading system which can be customized for Upside's clients who incorporate it into their existing web portal. Financial advisors like TD Ameritrade and representative vendors like Shareholders Service Group (SSG) who need to offer some automated investment services of their own utilization the B2B advisory platform made by Upside to automatically rebalance portfolios, open paperless accounts, and select portfolios for clients. Upside's clients are additionally able to make their own portfolios to incorporate investments other than ETFs like mutual funds and equities. Not all B2B robo-advisors are RIAs which means brokers or advisors that utilization these platforms should execute the trades that the robo-advisor system produces.

## B2B Robo-Advisor Examples

A few financial institutions that perceive the tremendous capability of robo advisors build their own B2B robo-advisor platforms as opposed to get them. American brokerage and banking firm, Charles Schwab constructed its own proprietary automated system, called Institutional Intelligent Portfolios, through which it offers free investment plans picked by its robo-advisor's computer calculations. Charles Schwab's B2B robo-advisor enables RIAs to make an extensive variety of portfolio sets which mirrors their investment strategies. The platform additionally automates tax loss harvesting and portfolio rebalancing which can be performed daily, tasks that traditional advisors do every year due to the tedious course of these activities. RIAs that utilization this B2B robo-advisor have no account service fees, trading commissions, or custody fees charged to them.

Some B2B robo-advisors are joining forces with the large financial institutions as opposed to rivaling them to improve their client's experience in investing and overseeing portfolios. While a few financial institutions buyout the robo-advisor for the firm's specific use, others get the robo-advisor to lease out to brokerages and advisory firms. Blackrock acquired the robo advisor FutureAdvisor in 2015 to act an advisor to its advisors, and furthermore to lease the advisor platform to a great many banks, specialist vendors, insurance companies, and other advisory firms. The FutureAdvisor system allows advisors to dismiss some investment proposals produced by its calculations. Along these lines, the advisor actually has control over their investment strategy and the system should reconsider its proposals assuming any gets dismissed. Bambu, a B2B advisor in Asia, is in partnership with Thomson Reuters, Tigerspike, Finantix, and Eigencat to make an advisory platform that will be leased to companies needing automated advisory tools.

## B2B Robo-Advisor versus B2C Robo-Advisor

There is nobody rule to the operations of a B2B robo-advisor. A few companies like Charles Schwab and Betterment have both B2C and B2B robo-advisor applications. Some Robo-advisors get going as B2C and switch to B2B due to the high client acquisition and marketing costs pervasive in the B2C market. FutureAdvisor was a B2C robo-advisor until it was acquired by Blackrock and changed to a B2B advisor. A few financial advisors that execute B2B robo-advisors program the system so that it just suggests ETFs offered by the financial institution. For all its worth, B2B clients appreciate low fees from involving these services as the cost of automating investment products and services goes from 0% to 0.5% of account value.
