---
keywords: Trading,Options and Derivatives Trading,Bond,Call Option,Stock,Stock Market,Strike Price,Options and Derivatives
title: Call Option
description: What Are Call Options and How Do They Work? A call option is an options contract that awards its buyer the right (however not the obligation) to buy a specific
---

# Call Option
## What Are Call Options and How Do They Work?
A call option is an options contract that awards its buyer the right (yet not the obligation) to buy a specific quantity (generally 100 shares) of an asset (like a stock) at a specific price prior to the date of the contract's expiration.
In exchange for this right, the option buyer pays the option seller a premium. A call option is considered a [derivative security](/derivative) on the grounds that its value is derived from the value of an underlying asset (e.g., 100 shares of a particular stock). Investing in a call resembles betting that the price of a stock will go up before the call contract lapses. In other words, calls are typically bullish investments.
## Call Options versus Put Options
Call options are something contrary to [put options](/putoption). While calls give their owners the right to buy something at a specific strike price, puts give their owners the right to sell something at a specific [strike price](/strikeprice).
A call investor wagers on the value of a security going up (which would permit them to buy shares for short of what they're worth or sell the contract for more than they paid), while a put investor wagers on the value of a security going down (which would permit them to sell shares for more than they're worth or sell the contract for more than they paid).
## How Might You Make Money on a Call Option?
Investors can realize [gains](/capitalgain) from call options in one of two ways — reselling or working out.
Each option has a [premium](/option-premium) (current market value) for which it tends to be bought and sold, and this premium changes over time in light of factors like the contract's intrinsic value (the difference between the strike price of the contract and the market price of the underlying asset), the time staying until expiration, and the [volatility](/volatility) of the underlying asset.
The more intrinsic value an option has, the more unpredictable the underlying security, and the longer until expiration, the more money an option costs.
To create a gain, an options trader could buy a call option for a [security](/security) they accept will go up in value. Assuming that this happens, the option's premium will increase, and the contract holder can resell the option for its new, higher premium, pocketing the difference between what they sold it for and what they bought it for.
On the other hand, an investor could purchase a call option contract with a strike price equivalent to an underlying security's market price in the hopes that the security will gain value before the contract lapses. Assuming that the underlying security gets more expensive, the option holder can exercise the option and buy shares at the strike price, which is lower than the new market price of the underlying asset. Their profit here is the security's market price minus the call option's strike price times 100 shares, minus the premium they paid for the contract.
It's memorable's important here that the premium an investor pays for a contract is part of their cost basis and ought to be calculated in while choosing when to sell or exercise an option for profit. Options investors possibly create a gain on the off chance that their gains surpass the premium they paid for the options contract being referred to.
## For what reason Do Investors Buy Call Options?
Numerous investors find call options alluring in light of the fact that they don't need a large amount of up-front capital. This is on the grounds that calls permit a trader to profit off the upward price movement of a stock (in pieces of 100 shares) without really purchasing the shares themself.
Also, risk is limited, as the most an option buyer stands to lose is the premium they paid for the contract itself — not the total value of the underlying shares.
Basically, call options permit bullish traders to wager on price appreciation without buying real shares, which requires more capital and accompanies more risk.
## How Might You Tell on the off chance that a Call Option Is in the Money (ITM) or Out of the Money (OTM)?
Options that have intrinsic value are thought of "[in the money](/inthemoney)," while options that don't are thought of "[out of the money](/out-of-the-money)." A call option is in the money and has intrinsic value in the event that its strike price is lower than the market price of the underlying asset (this is likewise called the spot price).
For instance, a call option with a strike price of $50 and a spot price of $60 would be in the money by $10 since, in such a case that it was exercised right away, shares could be bought for a $10 discount. In other words, this particular call contract would have $1,000 worth of intrinsic value since it concedes its owner the right to buy 100 shares of stock for $10 not as much as what they're worth.
Intrinsic value is constantly remembered for an option's premium, so there would be no point in buying an in-the-money call just to exercise it right away, as its premium would consolidate its intrinsic value, so no gains would be realized. Assuming an investor purchased the theoretical call option examined above, they would do as such in the hope that the underlying asset would keep on getting more expensive, making the option's intrinsic value surpass the premium they paid for it before practicing or reselling the contract.
In the event that a call option's strike price was greater than its spot price, it would be viewed as out of the money since it would lack intrinsic value. In other words, there would be no point in practicing an OTM call since, supposing that you did, you'd purchase shares for more than they cost on the open market.
## Step by step instructions to Trade Call Options
Options like calls can be traded by means of most well known trading platforms like Charles Schwabb, Robinhood, WeBull, and Fidelity. Typically, in any case, investors must apply for endorsement from their brokerage before beginning to trade options. Options can likewise be traded straightforwardly — not through a specialist — on the over-the-counter (OTC) market.
## 2 Common Call-Trading Strategies
There are numerous ways of trading calls, yet the accompanying three strategies are among the most common.
### 1. Long Call
A long call is the most direct call-trading strategy. In the event that an investor is bullish on a stock (i.e., they think it will go up in value), they can buy a call option on it. Assuming they pick an option whose strike price is at or over the underlying asset's market price (i.e., one that is out of the money), there will be no intrinsic value remembered for the contract's premium.
On the off chance that the stock being referred to goes up in value before the contract lapses, the option could gain intrinsic value by moving into the money, and the investor could then either resell it for a profit or exercise it to buy shares of the underlying stock for short of what they're worth.
An investor could time a long call to such an extent that its expiration happens some time after an event that they think will impact the underlying stock's price, similar to an earnings report or the closing of an acquisition. On the off chance that their prediction is off-base, and the news makes the stock fall, the most they stand to lose is the premium they paid for the contract. In the event that, then again, their prediction is right, their profit essentially really relies on how much the stock becomes more expensive.
### 2. Covered Call
Covered calls are generally written by investors who are long on a stock (i.e., they own it and don't plan to sell it soon) yet don't think it will go up fundamentally in price in the short term. An investor like this would compose a one call option for each 100 shares of the stock they own with a strike price like the stock's current market price. This means that assuming the price of the stock falls, the options would terminate worthless and the investor who composed the call would get to pocket the premium.
If, in any case, the stock being referred to went up essentially in value before the contract's expiration, the buyer of the call option would be qualified for purchase the seller's shares below market value. Luckily, the seller wouldn't need to buy these shares at their new higher price to sell them for a loss since they previously owned them.
This wouldn't be a very smart arrangement for the option seller, as they would have passed up the gains they would have realized had they basically kept on holding their initial long position in the underlying stock.

## Features
- You can go long on a call option by buying it or short a call option by selling it.
- You pay a fee to purchase a call option, called the premium; this per-share charge is the maximum you can lose on a call option.
- Call options might be purchased for speculation or sold for income purposes or for tax management.
- Call options may likewise be combined for use in spread or combination strategies.
- A call is an option contract giving the owner the right yet not the obligation to buy a predetermined amount of an underlying security at a predefined price inside a predetermined time.
- The predetermined price is known as the strike price, and the predefined time during which the sale can be made is its expiration or time to maturity.
## FAQ
### How Do Call Options Work?
Call options are a type of derivative contract that gives the holder the right yet not the obligation to purchase a predefined number of shares at a predetermined price, known as the "strike price" of the option. In the event that the market price of the stock rises over the option's strike price, the option holder can exercise their option, buying at the strike price and selling at the higher market price to lock in a profit. Options just last for a limited period of time; nonetheless. On the off chance that the market price doesn't rise over the strike price during that period, the options terminate worthless.
### How could You Buy a Call Option?
Investors will think about buying call options in the event that they are hopeful — or "[bullish](/bullmarket)" — about the possibilities of its underlying shares. For these investors, call options could give a more alluring method for hypothesizing on the possibilities of a company due to the leverage that they give. All things considered, every options contract gives the opportunity to buy 100 shares of the company being referred to. For a sure that a company's investor shares will rise, buying shares by implication through call options can be an appealing method for expanding their purchasing power.
### Is Buying a Call Bullish or Bearish?
Buying calls is a bullish behavior on the grounds that the buyer possibly profits assuming that the price of the shares rises. On the other hand, selling call options is a [bearish](/bearmarket) behavior, on the grounds that the seller profits in the event that the shares don't rise. While the profits of a call buyer are theoretically unlimited, the profits of a call seller are limited to the premium they receive when they sell the calls.
