---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Accounting
title: Cash Flow Plans
description: Cash flow plans assist policyholders with planning the payment of insurance premiums, by paying the premiums in portions out of cash flow.
---

# Cash Flow Plans
## What Are Cash Flow Plans?

Cash flow plans, in insurance, are plans that permit policyholders to utilize their own [cash flow](/cashflow) to finance their insurance premiums. Cash flow plans can likewise allude to an insurance company's assessment of a company's cash flow, income streams, and expenses, along with a plan to organize the payment of insurance premiums. Be that as it may, cash flow plans can likewise relate to reports a company puts together to follow cash flow, both cash inflows and outflows, over a period.

## How Cash Flow Plans Work

Cash flow plans can give financing to the two policyholders and insurance companies by assisting them with utilizing their cash. Policyholders can earn more interest on cash reserves, and cash flow could in fact be generated by the policy itself, as usually happens with life insurance policies that have investing parts. Insurers might get compensated in portions, however their assortment rate might go up in light of the fact that smaller, normal payments are more affordable.

Outside of the scope of insurance, a cash flow plan is a way by which a company can plan and deal with the loss and gain of cash to guarantee that the company can pay business-related expenses as they happen. Great cash flow management is key to guaranteeing any business runs without a hitch. By matching the payment of expenses to projected approaching cash, they can utilize working capital all the more proficiently, by making payments as late as could be expected. Cash flow plans can assist the business with earning interest on [cash reserves](/cash-reserves), and keep a [liquidity cushion](/liquiditycushion) for unforeseen expenses. They can likewise show whether operating cash flow is sufficient to make capital expenditures, or whether more capital should be raised.

## Special Considerations

The types of cash flow activities that are calculated into a cash flow plan are as per the following: operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities. Operating activities can incorporate the cash made by the sale of goods or purchase of merchandise. Investing activities incorporate long-term investments, property and equipment, and the principal of loans made to different elements. [Financing activities](/cashflowfromfinancing) are viewed as cash activities related to noncurrent liabilities and proprietor's equity, for example, the principal amount of long-term obligations, stock sales and purchases, and dividend payments.

> A strong cash flow plan is the best method for trying not to have cash flow issues, which are much of the time behind the early-end of in any case promising companies.
>
## Illustration of a Cash Flow Plan

Expect that Company Z is a new business that is in the practice of delivering web and telephone applications. Company Z expects that it will sell 40 applications per month at a price of $5,000 each and that it will be paying cash expense adding up to around $50,000 in certain months, and around $100,000 in different months. Company Z likewise guesses that it should buy $75,000 of equipment in December.

Company Z would begin the most common way of figuring out a cash flow plan to guarantee that it is capable of meeting the financial requests of these business-related expenses as they happen. Without a strong cash flow plan, Company Z runs the risk of being unable to satisfy these financial needs and could be forced either to raise capital rapidly — which is many times a costly interaction, fire employees, or even cease operation of the company.

## Features
- Cash flow activities incorporate operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities.
- In the insurance setting, a cash flow plan permits an entity to pay its premium in small spans in view of approaching cash flow.
- From an overall perspective, a cash flow plan permits a company to plan its approaching and active cash to guarantee it can meet expenses.
- A cash flow plan can be seen in an insurance setting or an overall setting.
- Insurance cash flow plans benefit both the policyholder and the insurance company in view of the increased ability of the policyholder to make payments.
