---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Corporate Insurance
title: Commutation Agreement
description: A commutation agreement is a reinsurance agreement where the reinsurer and ceding company settle on the conditions for obligations to be released.
---

# Commutation Agreement
## What Is a Commutation Agreement?

A commutation agreement is a reinsurance agreement where the reinsurer and the [ceding company](/ceding-company) settle on the conditions under which all obligations for the two players in the agreement are released.

A [commutation](/commutation) agreement incorporates the methods for esteeming any claims or outstanding charges, and how any excess losses or premiums are to be paid.

## Grasping Commutation Agreements

Insurance companies use reinsurance to reduce their overall risk exposure in exchange for a portion of the premium. Reinsurers are responsible for the risks that are ceded, with still up in the air in the reinsurance treaty. Reinsurance contracts can change long however may last for extended periods.

Some of the time an insurer — likewise called the ceding company — concludes that it no longer needs to guarantee a certain type of risk and that it never again needs to utilize a reinsurer. To exit the reinsurance treaty, it must haggle with the reinsurer, with talks bringing about a commutation agreement.

The insurance company may likewise consider exiting the reinsurance treaty in the event that it discovers that the reinsurer isn't financially strong and in this manner represents a risk to the [credit rating](/creditrating) of the insurer. The insurer may likewise estimate that it is more fit for taking care of the financial impact of claims than the reinsurer.

Then again, the reinsurer may establish that the insurance company is probably going to become bankrupt and will need to exit the agreement to stay away from contribution from government regulators.

Commutation agreement exchanges can be convoluted. A few types of [insurance claims](/insurance_claim) are documented long after the injury happens just like with certain types of [liability insurance](/liability_insurance). For instance, issues with a building may just a brief time after construction. Contingent upon the language of the reinsurance treaty, the reinsurer may in any case be responsible for claims made against the policy endorsed by the liability insurer. In different cases, claims might be made many years after the fact.

## Pricing a Commutation Agreement

There are a number of factors to look at when as an insurer and reinsurer put a price to their commutation agreement. Generally, computations start with a determination of the cost to the reinsurer of not commuting. This cost is the difference between the accompanying two amounts:

- The current value of expected future paid losses (utilizing an after-tax discount rate proper to the company and line of business)
- The current value of the tax benefit connected with the loosening up of the federal tax discounted reserves (utilizing the IRS endorsed discounting strategy)

The cost of the commutation is calculated by deducting from the cost of not commuting the value of the tax on the underwriting gain or loss generated by the commutation. This is the aftereffect of the takedown in reserves and payout of the last cost of commutation. This last cost of commutation addresses the break-even price and mirrors no loading for risk or profit.

## Features
- To empty a reinsurance treaty, the ceding company and reinsurer haggle and afterward foster a commutation agreement.
- These agreements incorporate ways claims are valued, as well as how to pay remaining losses and premiums.
- A commutation agreement is an agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company that subtleties the limitations in which contractual obligations are released.
- Generally, the agreement price starts with deciding the cost to the reinsurer of not commuting, which is the difference between the current value of both the expected future paid losses and the tax benefit associated with loosening up federal tax discounted reserves.
