---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Accounting
title: Days Payable Outstanding (DPO)
description: Days payable outstanding (DPO) is a ratio used to figure out what amount of time it requires for a company, on average, to pay its bills and solicitations.
---

# Days Payable Outstanding (DPO)
## What Is Days Payable Outstanding (DPO)?

Days payable outstanding (DPO) is a financial ratio that demonstrates the average time (in days) that a company takes to pay its bills and solicitations to its trade creditors, which might incorporate providers, merchants, or lenders. The ratio is commonly calculated on a quarterly or annual basis, and it shows how well the company's cash outflows are being managed.

A company with a higher value of DPO takes more time to pay its bills, and that means that it can hold available funds for a longer duration, permitting the company an opportunity to involve those funds in a better manner to boost the benefits. A high DPO, notwithstanding, may likewise be a red flag demonstrating a failure to pay its bills on time.

## Formula for quite a long time Payable Outstanding (DPO)
<span class="katex"><span class="katex-mathml"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><semantics><mtable rowspacing="0.24999999999999992em" columnalign="right left" columnspacing="0em"><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>DPO</mtext><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mrow><mtext>Accounts Payable</mtext><mo>×</mo><mtext>Number of Days</mtext></mrow><mtext>COGS</mtext></mfrac></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext mathvariant="bold">where:</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>COGS</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Cost of Goods Sold</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mspace width="2em"/><mtext>  </mtext><mtext> </mtext><mtext> </mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Beginning Inventory</mtext><mo>+</mo><mtext>P</mtext><mo>−</mo><mtext>Ending Inventory</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>P</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Purchases</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr></mtable><annotation encoding="application/x-tex">\begin{aligned} &amp;\text{DPO} = \frac{\text{Accounts Payable}\times\text{Number of Days}}{\text{COGS}}\\ &amp;\textbf{where:}\\ &amp;\text{COGS}=\text{Cost of Goods Sold} \\ &amp;\qquad\ \ \, \,= \text{Beginning Inventory} + \text{P} -\text{Ending Inventory}\\ &amp;\text{P}=\text{Purchases} \end{aligned}</annotation></semantics></math></span><span class="katex-html" aria-hidden="true"><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:8.35744em;vertical-align:-3.92872em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mtable"><span class="col-align-r"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.42872em;"><span style="top:-6.428719999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-4.60272em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-3.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-1.6027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-0.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:3.92872em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="col-align-l"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.42872em;"><span style="top:-6.428719999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">DPO</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mopen nulldelimiter"></span><span class="mfrac"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.3714399999999998em;"><span style="top:-2.314em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">COGS</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.23em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="frac-line" style="border-bottom-width:0.04em;"></span></span><span style="top:-3.677em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Accounts Payable</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mbin">×</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Number of Days</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.686em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mclose nulldelimiter"></span></span></span></span><span style="top:-4.60272em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord textbf">where:</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">COGS</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Cost of Goods Sold</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-1.6027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:2em;"></span><span class="mspace"> </span><span class="mspace"> </span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.16666666666666666em;"></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.16666666666666666em;"></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Beginning Inventory</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mbin">+</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">P</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mbin">−</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Ending Inventory</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-0.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">P</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Purchases</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:3.92872em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span>
## The most effective method to Calculate DPO

To make a salable product, a company needs raw material, utilities, and different resources. In terms of accounting rehearses, the accounts payable addresses how much money the company owes to its supplier(s) for purchases made on credit.

Moreover, there is a cost associated with manufacturing the salable product, and it incorporates payment for utilities like power and employee wages. This is addressed by [cost of goods sold (COGS)](/cogs), which is defined as the cost of obtaining or manufacturing the products that a company sells during a period. Both of these figures address cash outflows and are utilized in computing DPO throughout some stretch of time.

The number of days in the relating period is normally taken as 365 for a year and 90 for a quarter. The formula assesses the average each day cost being borne by the company for manufacturing a salable product. The numerator figure addresses payments outstanding. The net factor gives the average number of days taken by the company to pay off its obligations in the wake of getting the bills.

Two distinct adaptations of the DPO formula are utilized depending upon the accounting rehearses. In one of the variants, the accounts payable amount is taken as the figure reported toward the finish of the accounting period, as "toward the finish of fiscal year/quarter ending Sept. 30." This rendition addresses the DPO value as of the referenced date.

In another rendition, the average value of beginning AP and ending AP is taken, and the subsequent figure addresses the DPO value during that particular period. COGS continues as before in the two renditions.

## What Does DPO Tell You?

Generally, a company gets inventory, utilities, and other vital services on credit. It results in [accounts payable (AP)](/accountspayable), a key accounting entry that addresses a company's obligation to pay off the short-term liabilities to its creditors or providers. Past the genuine dollar amount to be paid, the timing of the payments — from the date of getting the bill till the cash really leaving the company's account — likewise turns into an important part of the business. DPO endeavors to measure this average time cycle for outward payments and is calculated by thinking about the standard accounting figures over a predefined period of time.

Companies having high DPO can involve the available cash for short-term investments and to increase their [working capital](/workingcapital) and [free cash flow (FCF)](/freecashflow). Nonetheless, higher values of DPO may not generally be a positive for the business. Assuming the company takes too long to pay its creditors, it risks imperiling its relations with the providers and creditors who might decline to offer the trade credit from now on or may offer it based on conditions that might be less favorable to the company. The company may likewise be losing out on any discounts on opportune payments, if available, and it could be paying more than needed.

Moreover, a company might have to balance its outflow tenure with that of the inflow. Envision on the off chance that a company permits a 90-day period for its customers to pay for the goods they purchase however has just a 30-day window to pay its providers and sellers. This mismatch will bring about the company being inclined to often cash crunch. Companies must strike a fragile balance with DPO.

> A high DPO can demonstrate a company that is utilizing capital resourcefully however it can likewise show that the company is battling to pay its creditors.
>
## Special Considerations

Regular DPO values shift widely across various industry sectors and it isn't worthwhile contrasting these values across various sector companies. A company's management will rather compare its DPO to the average inside its industry to check whether it is paying its merchants too rapidly or too leisurely. Depending upon the different global and nearby factors, similar to the overall performance of the economy, region, and sector, plus any applicable seasonal effects, the DPO value of a particular company can fluctuate essentially from one year to another, company to company, and industry to industry.

DPO value likewise forms a basic part of the formula utilized for computing the [cash transformation cycle (CCC)](/cashconversioncycle), one more key metric that communicates the period of time that a company takes to change over the resource inputs into realized cash flows from sales. While DPO centers around the current outstanding payable by the business, the superset CCC follows the whole cash time-cycle as the cash is first changed over into inventory, expenses, and accounts payable, through to sales and accounts receivable, and afterward back into cash close by when received.

## Illustration of How DPO Is Used

As a historical model, the leading retail corporation Walmart (WMT) had accounts payable worth $49.1 billion and cost of sales (cost of goods sold) worth $420.3 billion for the fiscal year ending Jan. 31, 2021. These figures are available in the annual [financial statement](/financial-statements) and [balance sheet](/balancesheet) of the company. Requiring the number of days as 365 for annual calculation, the DPO for Walmart comes to [ (49.1 x 365)/420.1 ] = 42.7 days.

Comparable calculations can be utilized for technology leader Microsoft (MSFT), which had $2.8 billion as AP and $41.3 billion as COGS, leading to a DPO value of 24.7 days.

It shows that during the fiscal year ending in 2021, Walmart paid its solicitations around 43 days in the wake of getting the bills, while Microsoft took around 25 days, on average, to pay its bills.

A glance at comparative figures for the online retail goliath Amazon (AMZN), which had an AP of $72.5 billion and COGS of $233.3 billion for the fiscal year 2020, uncovers an extremely high value of 113.4 days. Such high value of DPO is credited to the working model of Amazon, which generally has half of its sales being supplied by third-party dealers. Amazon quickly gets funds in its account for the sale of goods that are really supplied by third-party dealers utilizing Amazon's online platform.

Be that as it may, it doesn't pay the dealers following the sale yet may send accumulated payments in light of a week after week/month to month or threshold-based payment cycle. This working mechanism permits Amazon to hold onto the cash for a longer period of time, and the leading online retailer winds up with a fundamentally higher DPO.

## Limitations of DPO

While DPO is helpful in contrasting relative strength among companies, there is no obvious figure for what is a sound days payable outstanding, as the DPO differs essentially by industry, competitive situating of the company, and its bargaining power. Large companies with a strong power of negotiation are able to contract for better terms with providers and creditors, really delivering lower DPO figures than they would have in any case.

## Highlights
- Days payable outstanding (DPO) processes the average number of days a company needs to pay its bills and obligations.
- Nonetheless, higher values of DPO, however desirable, may not generally be a positive for the business as it might signal a cash shortfall and failure to pay.
- Companies that have a high DPO can postpone making payments and utilize the available cash for short-term investments as well as to increase their working capital and free cash flow.
## FAQ
### What Is the Difference Between DPO and DSO?
Days payable outstanding (DPO) is the average time for a company to pay its bills. Paradoxically, days sales outstanding (DSO) is the average time span for sales to be paid back to the company. At the point when a DSO is high, it demonstrates that the company is waiting extended periods to collect money for products that it sold on credit. Conversely, a high DPO could be deciphered various ways, either demonstrating that the company is using its cash close by to make really working capital, or showing poor management of free cash flow.
### How Do You Calculate Days Payable Outstanding?
To ascertain days of payable outstanding (DPO), the accompanying formula is applied: DPO = Accounts Payable X Number of Days/Cost of Goods Sold (COGS). Here, COGS alludes to beginning inventory plus purchases deducting the ending inventory. Accounts payable, then again, alludes to company purchases that were made on credit that are due to its providers.
### What Does Days Payable Outstanding Mean in Accounting?
As a financial ratio, days of payable outstanding (DPO) shows the amount of time that companies take to pay lenders, creditors, merchants, or providers. The DPO might show a couple of things, specifically, how a company is dealing with its cash, or the means for a company to use this cash towards short-term investments that thusly may intensify their cash flow. The DPO is measured on a quarterly or annual term.
