---
keywords: Economy,Economics
title: Entity Theory
description: The entity theory is the theory that the economic activities, accounts, and liabilities of a business ought to be kept distinct from those of its owners.
---

# Entity Theory
## What Is the Entity Theory?

The entity theory is a legal theory and accounting concept that all of the [business activity](/business-activities) led by any corporation or limited liability business is separate from that of its owners. The entity theory has two angles. In accounting, it means that business and personal accounts, transactions, assets, and liabilities ought to be represented under separate and district elements independently of the owners' [personal finances](/personalfinance). In business law, that's what it means, under the reason of [limited liability](/limitedliability), the owners of a business that is structured as a separate entity ought not be held personally at risk for the liabilities incurred by the business.

Notwithstanding a few reactions, due to a great extent to its fictitious nature and the agency problems it makes in practice, the entity theory has been significant to [limited liability company](/llc) (LLC) accounting practices and the situation with corporations today as juridical persons.

## Grasping the Entity Theory

Under the entity theory, an individual or group of individuals working all together firm is treated as a separate legal and accounting entity, basically making a fictitious character. Anybody who works with that individual or group is thought of as in the legal and accounting faculties to work with the firm as opposed to individuals with whom they are actually dealing.

This permits both 1) the collective accounting for transactions, and 2) the legal ownership and responsibility for assets and liabilities to be recorded and mediated separately from whatever other activities that the individuals from the firm take part in. Grouping the accounting of transactions together under separate elements means that profits (or losses) and the net value of significant assets can be calculated all the more effectively to work with rational economic independent direction.

Making business firms fictitious persons according to the law means that firms can possess assets and property, issue debt (borrow money), go into contracts, etc. Firms can likewise be sued, without additionally suing the ownership and management personally.

Under the entity theory, the [accounting equation](/accounting-equation) for a business balance sheet portrays the firm as an entity (the sum total of its assets) on one side of the equation, against two separate substances, the stockholders (who hold the firm's equity) and the creditor (who hold the firm's liabilities or debts):
<span class="katex"><span class="katex-mathml"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><semantics><mtable rowspacing="0.24999999999999992em" columnalign="right left" columnspacing="0em"><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>Assets</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Liabilities</mtext><mo>+</mo><mtext>Stockholders’ Equity</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext mathvariant="bold">where:</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>Liabilities</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>All current and long-term</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>debts and obligations</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>Stockholders’ Equity</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Assets available to</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>shareholders after all liabilities</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr></mtable><annotation encoding="application/x-tex">\begin{aligned} &amp;\text{Assets} = \text{Liabilities} + \text{Stockholders&#x27; Equity}\\ &amp;\textbf{where:}\\ &amp;\text{Liabilities} = \text{All current and long-term} \\ &amp;\text{debts and obligations}\\ &amp;\text{Stockholders&#x27; Equity} = \text{Assets available to} \\ &amp;\text{shareholders after all liabilities}\\ \end{aligned}</annotation></semantics></math></span><span class="katex-html" aria-hidden="true"><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:9.000000000000002em;vertical-align:-4.250000000000001em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mtable"><span class="col-align-r"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.750000000000001em;"><span style="top:-6.750000000000001em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-5.25em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-3.749999999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-2.249999999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-0.7499999999999996em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:0.7500000000000009em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:2.84em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.250000000000001em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="col-align-l"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.750000000000001em;"><span style="top:-6.910000000000001em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Assets</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Liabilities</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mbin">+</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Stockholders’ Equity</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-5.41em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord textbf">where:</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.9099999999999993em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Liabilities</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">All current and long-term</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-2.4099999999999993em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">debts and obligations</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-0.9099999999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Stockholders’ Equity</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Assets available to</span></span></span></span><span style="top:0.5900000000000007em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">shareholders after all liabilities</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.250000000000001em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span>
This can be differentiated to the equation for the balance sheet equation of a sole proprietorship or non-limited liability company or the net worth of an individual, which portrays the value of the business (or individual) as the difference between the assets that they own and the debts that they are obligated for, all as a single legal and accounting entity.

By protecting owners of a business from full liability for the actions of business, the application of the entity theory works with the concentration of useful assets heavily influenced by managers and employees of a business who generally have more specific information and skills concerning how to profitably apply those assets.

Restricting proprietor's liability is a method for inciting them to share control over their assets with managers who can utilize them more beneficially than the actual owners can, expanding opportunities for cooperative business activities that produce value for every one of the individuals in question.

## Reactions of the Entity Theory

However the essential concept of the entity theory has been circulating since basically the nineteenth century and is the predominant way where business is directed and represented from one side of the planet to the other, it isn't generally naturally figured out by many individuals. This is basically due to the fairly clear problem that it expects that individuals accept, or possibly profess to accept, in fanciful elements that exist just on paper in accounting statements and legal records.

In reality, a company isn't itself an independent entity, yet a collective misrepresentation of the owners, managers, employees, and other [stakeholders](/stakeholder) engaged with business transactions with them. In any case, entity theory expects that real individuals, to some degree in their business and legal dealings, act as though they accept that fanciful individuals really exist. This legal and accounting affectation is intended to assist with keeping track of and safeguard profits that the business creates and energize useful investment, however it might appear to be practically similar to magic or maybe voluntary madness.

This profit is perpetually linked to the owners' wallets, however the application of entity theory in accounting and law safeguards those wallets from the full costs and risks that the business additionally creates. The second analysis of entity theory is that it can make and compound [agency problems](/agencyproblem) by isolating ownership — claims on profits — from control over the actual business activities that create those profits.

Owners who are protected, in an accounting sense yet particularly from a legal perspective, from full liability for the costs and risks that their business makes essentially have less incentive to care in the event that a firm causes debts it can't pay or forces costs and risks on pariahs and spectators (which financial experts call [externalities](/externality)). Employees and managers in like manner have less incentive to care assuming their actions hurt the interests of the owners or outsiders when they realize that the owners' risk is limited and that their own risk of loss is comparatively limited to the risk of losing their positions.

## Features
- The entity theory permits the calculation of profits and losses among a set of related transactions and the formation of corporations and limited liability companies.
- The entity theory might be condemned for its inherent separation from reality and its conceivable contribution to agency problems.
- The entity theory is the legal and accounting doctrine that treats business firms as separate elements from their owners and different stakeholders.
