---
keywords: Economy,Economics,Crypto
title: Fiat Money
description: Fiat money is a government-issued currency that isn&#39;t backed by a physical commodity, like gold or silver.
---

# Fiat Money
A currency that has been laid out as a substantial form of money, ordinarily upheld by a government regulation that declares it to be legal tender. The term fiat comes from the Latin and as a word used to depict a government decree, order or resolution. By definition, fiat money is a currency that has no intrinsic value as it isn't backed by a physical commodity and is generally made of a worthless or low-value material (like a small piece of paper). Even thus, fiat money is widely accepted for the purpose of payment.
Other than the government endorsement and regulation, the principal motivation behind why fiat money is viewed as substantial and valuable in our society is due to a collective conviction. As such, the fiat value is highly dependent on a collective agreement that it has market value and might be utilized as a medium of exchange, with an intrinsic purchasing power. In this manner, the acceptance of fiat money is strongly dependent on a government decree alongside a social convention (and expectation that it will keep its value from now on). On the off chance that either the social conviction or the government decree gets compromised, the real value of the currency, for of payment, is rapidly and greatly decreased.
Due to the way that most fiat currencies are not backed by precious metals (like gold, silver, and copper) nor some other commodity, central banks are able to cause large varieties in the supply of money, which may eventually lead to episodes of very high inflation rates (hyperinflation).
Historical records recommend that the primary form of paper money was made in the 11th century China. The Song dynasty is known for giving the supposed jiaozi, viewed as the primary government-issued paper money ever. Jiaozi was a crude form of banknote made to supplant the heavy iron cash coins that were being utilized around then. Be that as it may, the succeeding Great Yuan dynasty was the one to really take on and use fiat money on a large scale - as the transcendent medium of exchange. The Great Yuan period endured from 1271 to 1368, however the fiat money kept on being adopted by the following Great Ming dynasty (1368-1644).

## Highlights
- Fiat money is a government-issued currency that isn't backed by a commodity like gold.
- One risk of fiat money is that governments can print too a lot of it, bringing about hyperinflation.
- Fiat money gives central banks greater control over the economy since they have some control over how much money is printed.
- Most modern paper currencies, like the U.S. dollar, are fiat currencies.
## FAQ
### For what reason Do Modern Economies Favor Fiat Money?
Prior to the twentieth century, most countries used a gold standard or backing by a commodity of some kind or another. As international trade and finance filled in scale and degree; in any case, the limited amount of gold emerging from mines and in central bank vaults couldn't keep up with the new value that was being made, making serious disturbances global markets and commerce. Fiat money gives governments greater flexibility to deal with their own currency, set monetary policy, and balance out global markets. It additionally allows for [fractional reserve banking](/fractionalreservebanking), which allows commercial banks to duplicate the amount of money available to satisfy need from borrowers.
### Does Fiat Money Lead to Hyperinflation?
There is dependably the possibility of hyperinflation when a country prints its own currency; nonetheless, most developed countries have encountered just moderate episodes of inflation. As a matter of fact, having some predictable low level of inflation is viewed as a positive driver of economic growth and investment as it encourages individuals to put their money to work as opposed to have it sit idle and lose purchasing power over time.Having a generally strong and stable currency isn't just an order of most modern central banks, yet a quickly devalued currency is destructive to trade and getting financing. In addition, it is hazy whether hyperinflation is brought about by "runaway printing" of money. Truth be told, hyperinflation has happened over the entire course of time, even when money depended on precious metals; and all contemporary hyperinflation has started with a fundamental breakdown in the real production economy as well as political shakiness in the country.
### What Are Some Alternatives to Fiat Money?
Virtually every country today has legal tender that is fiat money. While you can buy and sell gold and gold coins, these are rarely utilized in exchange or for regular purchases and will generally be to a greater extent a collectible or speculative asset. Cryptocurrencies, like [Bitcoin](/bitcoin), have arisen throughout the last decade as a test to the inflationary idea of fiat currencies; however in spite of increased interest and adoption, these virtual assets don't appear to approach being "money" in the traditional sense.
### Why Is Fiat Money Valuable?
As opposed to commodity-based money like gold coins or paper bills redeemable for precious metals, fiat money is backed altogether by the full faith and trust in the government that issued it. One explanation this has merit is that governments demand that you pay taxes in the fiat money it issues. Since everyone requirements to pay taxes, or probably face solid punishments or jail, individuals will acknowledge it in exchange (this is known as [Chartalism](/chartalism)). Different speculations of money, like the credit theory, recommend that since all money is a credit-obligation connection, it doesn't make any difference assuming that money is backed by anything to keep up with value.
