---
keywords: Trading,Trading Skills and Essentials,Trading Basic Education,Trading Skills
title: Flat Dollar
description: A flat dollar is a fixed dollar amount charged for transactions, rather than an amount in light of a percentage of the transaction.
---

# Flat Dollar
## What Is a Flat Dollar?

A flat dollar addresses a fixed dollar amount, generally with regards to fees or [commissions](/commission) paid for services. It might likewise go by the terms flat fee or flat rate.

Contracts that determine flat dollar amounts instead of percentage-based fees eliminate the size of the transaction from the fee equation. Along these lines, flat dollar fees might offer brokers or traders benefits when transaction sizes change.

## How Flat Dollars Work

When [brokers](/broker) charge fees in view of a percentage of a transaction's value, negligible transactions might yield lacking charges to make the trade productive. At the opposite finish of the range, high fees generated by large transaction sizes could deter traders from making large transactions. Flat dollar fees tackle the two issues. They offer traders protection at the low end, successfully making a [price floor](/floor). At the high end, flat dollar fees increase the value of larger transactions for traders as the flat fee addresses a decreasing percentage of the [transaction cost](/transactioncosts).

In areas, for example, online retail trading, flat dollar fees on stock transactions have generally turned into the industry standard, for example, a broker advertising $4.95 per equity trade. For the majority of retail investors, flat fees offer a substantially more economical option than percentage-based fees. Retail brokers currently rival each other on fee pricing designs to gain the business of cost-cognizant investors, giving opportunities to even better value.

> Fee-just financial advisors work on a flat dollar basis instead of charging commissions or sales loads.
>
## Illustration of a Flat Dollar Fee

To conclude whether a flat dollar fee seems OK, investors should seriously mull over how they stack facing percentage-based fees or commissions across a scope of situations. [Investors](/investor) and [traders](/trader) ought to likewise break down their unique trading styles.

Flat dollar fees generally offer benefits for investors who purchase or sell a moderately large number of shares per trade. Fixed charges will be conversely proportional to the overall size of the transaction. The larger the transaction, the more modest percentage the fee addresses. Conversely, more modest transactions will address a more critical percentage of the trade. Subsequently, the size of the flat dollar fee suggests a sweet spot where the scope of the deal checks out for the investor.

For instance, assume an online brokerage firm charges $5 per trade.

- Investor A makes a $500 investment, and fees will compare to 1% of the purchase
- Investor B makes a $1,000 investment, and fees will liken to 0.5% of the purchase
- Investor C makes a $5,000 investment, and fees will liken to 0.1% of the purchase

Contingent upon the amount of the commission percentage, Investor An eventual better off with a broker charging fees in light of the value of the transaction. If the broker charges a 0.5% commission, Investor A has less trading overhead. Investor B would see no difference in the cost, and Investor C would see a substantial rise in their cost per trade.

## Highlights
- Flat dollar fees on stock transactions have turned into the industry standard in numerous areas of finance.
- Flat dollars offer traders a realized trading fee, successfully making a price floor while trading larger volumes.
- Flat dollars are fixed dollar amounts or a flat rate, for the most part with regards to service fees or commissions.
