---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 6252
description: Form 6252: Installment Sale Income is an IRS form used to report income from a sale of real or personal property coming from an installment sale.
---

# Form 6252
## What Is Form 6252: Installment Sale Income?

Form 6252: Installment Sale Income is a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) form used to report income from the sale of real or personal property coming from a [installment sale](/installment-sale) with the installment method.

An installment sale happens when somewhere around one payment from the disposition of property is received after the finish of the [tax year](/taxyear). An installment sale, as a general rule, does exclude disposition of personal property from a person who consistently sells that equivalent type of property-like a real estate agent or specialist or property that is sold to customers in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's occupation, (for example, with farmland).

In certain circumstances, when there are gains on the dispositions of the property, the installment method might be utilized. Proceeds from an installment sale can come in later tax years, which are reported except if the taxpayer isn't utilizing the installment method.

## Who Can File Form 6252: Installment Sale Income?

Filers might have to utilize this form any time they realize a gain on property in the installment method. [Taxpayers](/taxpayer) don't need to file Form 6252 on the off chance that the sale of the property doesn't bring about a gain for them, even on the off chance that their payments are received in a subsequent tax year. If so, a business ought to report the sale utilizing [Form 4797](/form-4797).

Moreover, Form 6252 isn't expected to report sales of [stock](/stock) or securities traded on a laid out [securities market](/marketablesecurities); those sales ought to be treated as though they were received around the same time the sale was made.

> Taxpayers shouldn't file Form 6252 for sales that don't bring about a gain, even assuming a payment is received in the tax year.
>
## Instructions to File Form 6252: Installment Sale Income

The taxpayer must information their name and identification number — an employer identification number for a corporation or a [Social Security Number](/ssn) for an individual. The next section manages information about the property, including description, and date of acquisition and sale.

Part I manages gross profits and the contract price. This part is completed for the entire long periods of the installment agreement. The next section, Part II, frames information about the installment sale income. Part III, which isn't filled out assuming the taxpayer received the last payment in the tax year, manages information about related party sale income .
<!--75E27400D0EC08952A52A49575ECA363-->
Form 6252 is accessible on the IRS website.

## Special Considerations When Filing Form 6252: Installment Sale Income

New rules in 2018 permit taxpayers to concede part or each of their capital gains into a Qualified Opportunity Fund. To meet all requirements for the deferral, taxpayers must think about the accompanying:

- Investment in the fund must be finished in 180 days or less.
- Deferrals are chosen on Form 8949, which is filed with the return.
- Investment in the QOF must be an equity interest as opposed to a debt interest.

## Other Relevant Forms

As referenced above, in the event that the taxpayer is picking to concede any or every one of their capital gains into a Qualified Opportunity Fund, they must likewise file [Form 8949](/form-8949): Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets. These funds were planned by the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) to assist with making economic development and occupations. They likewise need to file Form 8997 consistently in which they hold an investment in a QOF.

## Features
- This form is filed by any individual who has realized a gain on the property utilizing the installment method.
- Form 6252 is utilized to report income from the sale of real or personal property coming from an installment sale.
- New rules permit taxpayers to concede part or all of the capital gain into a Qualified Opportunity Fund.
