---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Tax Deductions and Credits,Deductions and Credits
title: Form 4684
description: Form 4684: Casualties and Thefts is an IRS form to report gains or losses from setbacks and theft which might be deductible and reduce taxable income.
---

# Form 4684
## What Is Form 4684: Casualties and Thefts?

Form 4684 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for reporting gains or losses from setbacks and thefts which might be [deductible](/deductible) for taxpayers who organize deductions. Casualty losses can be the aftereffect of fires, floods, and different disasters. As a rule, taxpayers can deduct losses in the tax year in which they occurred. On account of theft, the tax year is the time of loss discovery.

## Who Can File Form 4684: Casualties and Thefts?

Taxpayers reporting gains or losses from a casualty or theft ought to file Form 4684. Homeowners who received warning of the need to tear down or move a structure after a federally declared disaster might utilize Form 4684 to claim a loss. These people might claim the difference in the home's value, pre-and post-event. Notwithstanding, the owner must receive notice from the building authority in no less than 120 days of the declaration of the disaster area.

Losses and thefts of personal property are just deductible in the event that they can be credited to a federally declared disaster. The IRS permits an exception to this rule for people who have personal casualty gains. In that case, the taxpayer can utilize casualty and theft losses not owing to a federally-declared disaster to offset the gains. Taxpayers who live in federally declared disaster areas don't have to organize deductions to file Form 4684. Taxpayers can't utilize Form 4684 to deduct expenses connected with personal wounds.
<!--0EB25B7FA9AE7850FCDA1576B902B51D-->
Form 4684 is accessible on the IRS website.

> Generally speaking, this form applies to personal losses, rather than for setbacks and thefts connected with the business property.
>

Whenever you have confirmed that your losses or thefts fit the bill for a deduction, complete Form 4684 and either join it to your return or to an amended return for a past claim. To deduct federally declared disaster losses for the previous tax year, complete Section D of Form 4684.

## Special Considerations When Filing Form 4684

Form 4684 permits the deduction of non-repaid losses from specific events. Deductible casualty losses generally must outcome from an episode that is sudden, startling, or unusual and occurred during a federally declared disaster. Losses incorporate natural disasters like tremors, fires, floods, or tempests. Different types of disasters incorporate vandalism, auto accidents, and wrecks. Provisions are additionally in place to help those experiencing loss destructive drywall and specific acidic pyrrhotite concrete.

Even the loss of deposits in a few financial institutions which become bankrupt or ruined can some of the time qualify as a casualty. There are specific conditions for the deduction of loss from events, for example, [Ponzi schemes](/ponzischeme). Section C of Form 4684 contains information to complete deductions for such financial losses.

Nonetheless, damage alone may not qualify as a deductible casualty loss. For instance, damage to a home from termite pervasion or intrusion of molds and parasites isn't viewed as a casualty loss in light of the fact that such destruction is the consequence of a continuous cycle, not a sudden event. Likewise, an auto accident might bring about damages, however those losses are not deductible on the off chance that the taxpayer was resolutely careless in causing it.

Theft losses might incorporate incidents of embezzlement and robbery. These losses qualify on the off chance that the theft is a crime in the state the event happened and assuming somebody acted with criminal intent. Fraud might be viewed as theft in certain conditions. Be that as it may, assuming that losses are the consequence of a decline in the price of a company's stock due to unlawful wrongdoing with respect to company executives, damages may not be deductible. Nonetheless, these losses can result in a [capital loss](/capitalloss), which can offset a taxpayer's [capital gains](/capitalgain) or reduce taxable income.

## Form 4684 and Federal Disaster Areas

Section D of IRS Form 4684 applies to federally declared [disaster losses](/disasterloss). Despite the fact that casualty losses are typically deductible just in the tax year in which those losses occur, special provisions exist for qualified disaster losses. Losses from federally declared disaster areas have allowances to be deductible in the previous tax year and give extra tax benefits. For an event to qualify, the loss must fall into specific geologically declared disaster areas.

As indicated by the IRS, for the tax year 2020, "a qualified disaster loss is presently expanded to incorporate a singular's casualty and theft of personal-use property that is owing to a major disaster that was declared before February 26, 2021, by the President under section 401 of the Stafford Act and that happened on or after December 28, 2019, and prior to December 27, 2020, and proceeded no later than January 26, 2021. Nonetheless, this change does exclude those losses inferable from a major disaster that has been declared exclusively by reason of COVID-19."

## Features
- Taxpayers who live in federally declared disaster areas don't have to organize deductions to file Form 4684.
- Form 4684 is a U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form for reporting gains or losses from setbacks and thefts that happened in view of a federally declared disaster and which might be deductible for taxpayers who organize deductions.
- A casualty loss can result from the damage, destruction, or loss of your property from any sudden, startling, or unusual event like a flood, hurricane, twister, fire, quake, or volcanic emission.
