---
keywords: Personal Finance,Home Ownership,Mortgage
title: Form 1098
description: Form 1098 is an IRS form utilized by taxpayers to report the amount of interest and related expenses paid on a mortgage during the tax year when the amount totals $600 or more.
---

# Form 1098
## What Is Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement?

Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement is a [Internal Revenue Service (IRS](/irs)) form that is utilized by taxpayers to report the amount of interest and related expenses paid on a mortgage during the tax year when the amount totals $600 or more. Related expenses incorporate [points](/points) paid on the purchase of the property. Points allude to prepaid interest made on a home loan to work on the rate on the mortgage offered by the lending institution.

Form 1098 fills two needs:

- Lenders use it to report interest payments in excess of $600 they received for the year. The IRS gathers this information to guarantee appropriate financial reporting for lenders and different substances that receive interest payments.
- Homeowners use it to decide the total amount of interest they paid for the year while calculating their mortgage interest deduction for their annual tax returns.

## Who Can File Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement?

In the event that you paid $600 or something else for the previous year in interest and points on a mortgage, your lender is required to send Form 1098 to you. In the event that you paid under $600, you won't receive Form 1098. These expenses can be utilized as deductions on a federal income tax form, [Schedule A](/schedulea), which reduces taxable income and the overall amount owed to the IRS. Form 1098 is issued and sent by the lender — or other entity getting the interest — to you, the borrower.

The mortgage lender is required by the IRS to give Form 1098 to you assuming your property is considered [real property](/real-property). Real property is land and whatever is based on, become on, or appended to the land.

The property for which the mortgage interest payments must fulfill IRS guidelines, which characterize home as a space that has essential residing conveniences: cooking and washroom facilities and a dozing area. Houses, condos, mobile homes, boats, cooperatives, and house trailers all qualify as a home as per the IRS.

Likewise, the actual mortgage must be qualified. As indicated by the IRS, [qualified mortgages](/qualified-mortgage) incorporate first and second mortgages, home equity loans, and refinanced mortgages.

### Rules for Deducting Mortgage Interest

Whether you want Form 1098 relies upon whether you plan to organize your deductions on the Schedule A Form. Claiming a deduction for mortgage interest paid when can reduce your total taxable income. In any case, there are a couple of rules to realize about deducting mortgage interest.

- You must be the primary borrower and be making payments on the loan.
- You're limited to deducting interest on total mortgage debt of $750,000 or less, assuming that the debt originated on or after Dec. 16, 2017. (The limit for more established mortgage debt is $1 million.)

In the event that these concern you, you would require Form 1098 to deduct the mortgage interest you paid for your home loan for the current tax year. In the event that you have more than one qualified mortgage, you will receive a separate Form 1098 for every one.
<!--D9984D9215F2D5EDEDBCF7DA9750C40B-->
All duplicates of Form 1098 are available on the IRS website.

## Step by step instructions to File Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Deduction

Taxpayers don't have to really incorporate Form 1098 with their tax returns in light of the fact that the information remembered for the form has previously been given to the IRS. Rather, taxpayers utilize the information gave on Form 1098 in the event that they plan to deduct their mortgage payments. On the off chance that you're planning to file your tax return electronically, you enter the information from the form into the suitable boxes on your tax return to record your interest deduction information.

In the event that you're getting a Form 1098 interestingly, you might consider how to figure out it. There are 11 boxes to observe while exploring your statement.

- Box 1: Mortgage interest received from the borrower. This container shows how much interest you paid to your lender for the year.
- Box 2: Outstanding mortgage principal. This case shows how much is owed on the principal of the loan.
- Box 3: Mortgage origination date. This shows the date when your mortgage originated.
- Box 4: Refund of overpaid interest. Assuming you overpaid mortgage interest that was refunded, it would be listed here.
- Box 5: Mortgage insurance premiums. Assuming you're paying private mortgage insurance or mortgage insurance premiums for the loan, those amounts are placed here.
- Box 6: Points paid on the purchase of the principal residence. This container shows mortgage points you might have the option to deduct.
- Boxes 7 through 11. These incorporate information about the mortgage and the actual property.

While assessing Form 1098, it's important to confirm that the entirety of your personal information, including your name, address, and tax identification number, is accurate.

## Other 1098 Tax Forms

Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Deduction is one of four forms that incorporates the number 1098. Each of the 1098 forms are connected with deductions. The three different adaptations of Form 1098 are Form 1098-C, Form 1098-E, and Form 1098-T.

### Form 1098-C

Form 1098-C subtleties the donations of automobiles, boats, and airplanes to charitable organizations that give the vehicles to the destitute or sell them at a below-market price. It is filed and reported by the beneficiary organization and incorporates the date of donation, type of vehicle, vehicle identification number (VIN), and value of the vehicle.

### Form 1098-E

Form 1098-E reports the interest paid on qualified student loans during the tax year. The interest paid can be deducted by the taxpayer, who will receive the form specifying how much interest was paid that year. It is sent by the lending institution if something like $600 was paid in interest, albeit the taxpayer might get a form for totals under $600.

### Form 1098-T

Form 1098-T gives information about post-auxiliary tuition and related fees during the year. It is filed by the educational institution and can be utilized to work out education-related tax deductions and credits, for example, the [American Opportunity Tax Credit](/american-opportunity-tax-credit) (AOTC) and the [Lifetime Learning Credit](/lifelearningcredit) (LLC). The form likewise reports any scholarships and awards received through the school that might reduce the taxpayer's allowable deduction or credit.

> Taxpayers who have received assistance from the Housing Finance Agency Innovation Fund for the Hardest Hit Housing Markets (HFA Hardest Hit Fund) receive Form 1098-MA, which they can use to report these payments.
>
## 1098 Form FAQs

## Features
- Other 1098 tax forms incorporate Form 1098-C (charitable contributions), Form 1098-T (credit for education payments), and Form 1098-E (student loan interest payments).
- To deduct mortgage interest, you must be the primary borrower on the loan, and be actively making payments.
- Lenders are required to issue Form 1098 when a homeowner has paid $600 or more in mortgage interest during the tax year.
- Form 1098 is utilized to report mortgage interest paid for the year.
- In the event that you are organizing your deductions and plan to claim a mortgage interest deduction, Form 1098 assists you with working out the amount of your mortgage payments that have gone towards interest.
## FAQ
### Does the Parent or Student Claim the 1098-T?
Either can do as such (however not both). Generally, it relies upon who is really paying the educational expenses, and on the off chance that the student is as yet being listed and taken as a dependent on the parent's tax return. Assuming they are, the parent generally claims the education credit, in light of the Form 1098-T data.
### What Is a 1098 Tax Form From College?
Form 1098-T is utilized by colleges and universities to report payments received by students for qualified tuition and different expenses, similar to scholarships and awards. It is filed with the IRS by the educational institution, and the student receives a copy. Taxpayers utilize the data on Form 1098-T to claim an education credit on Form 1040 (the tax return).
### How Do I Get My 1098 Form?
Your mortgage lender sends your Form 1098 to you, generally toward the finish of January of the filing year.
### Do I Need to File 1098?
No, you don't need to really file Form 1098 — that is, submit it with your tax return. You just need to show the amount of interest reported by the form. What's more, you generally possibly report this interest assuming that you are organizing deductions on your tax return.
### What Is a 1098 Tax Form Used For?
Form 1098 reports the total amount of interest paid on a mortgage during the previous year. Taxpayers use it to compute the size of the mortgage interest deduction they can take, if any, for that tax year.
