---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 2848
description: Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative is utilized to approve an individual to show up before the IRS to address a taxpayer.
---

# Form 2848
## What Is Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?

Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative is a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) document that approves an individual or organization to address a taxpayer by showing up before the IRS — at an audit, for instance.

Government law requires the IRS to keep confidential all of the information that you supply on your [tax return](/taxreturn). Thus, you must file a Form 2848 with the IRS before anybody other than yourself might receive and examine your tax information, and address you to the IRS.

## What Is the Purpose of Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?

Form 2848 is comparable, yet not indistinguishable, to a [power of attorney](/powerofattorney) (POA). It doesn't, be that as it may, alleviate or reimburse the taxpayer of any tax liability. At the point when you sign Form 2848, you approve a [certified public accountant](/cpa) (CPA), attorney, or other person designated as your agent to make certain moves for your benefit including:

- Receive confidential tax information
- Consent to an arrangement with the IRS in regards to taxes, on tax returns determined on Form 2848
- Sign documents requesting extra chance to survey the tax obligation, as well as extra time to consent to a tax change
- Sign a tax return in a limited situation

A limited situation, for instance, could be in the event that you are experiencing a disease or injury, or you are outside of the United States persistently for no less than 60 days before the date that a return is required to be filed. In some other situation — suppose, you're on vacation before and after your return has been prepared and must be filed — you must present a request recorded as a hard copy to the IRS for permission for somebody, for example, a tax preparer, to sign your return.

Nonetheless, Form 2848 is definitely not a blanket grant of authority to do everything associated with taxes for your sake. For example, your agent can't:

- Underwrite or arrange a refund check, or direct that a refund be kept electronically into the agent's record
- Substitute one more agent for themselves (despite the fact that you can specifically approve this

> Taxpayers can deny recently named representatives by stating "Repudiate" across the highest point of another Form 2848, signing it, and sending it to the IRS with a copy of the original Form 2848.
>
## Who Can File Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative?

Any individual who wishes to be addressed by an authorized power of attorney while meeting with the IRS might finish up and submit Form 2848. Authorized individuals or organizations incorporate attorneys or law firms, CPAs, and [enrolled agents](/enrolled_agent). These agents can completely address taxpayers to the IRS.

The IRS likewise permits individuals who are connected with the taxpayer, like family individuals or [fiduciaries](/guardian), to act as [third-party representatives](/third-party). In any case, their access is limited and they might address taxpayers just within the sight of client support agents, revenue agents, or comparable IRS employees. They can't execute closing agreements, waivers, or refunds. Also, they can't sign documents for taxpayers.

## Step by step instructions to File Form 2848: Power of Attorney and Declaration of Representative

For Form 2848 to be effective, you want to determine the tax form and year for which you are granting authority. Here are a few tips on the best way to finish up a 2848 form accurately:

- Description of the matter — for instance, income taxes
- Tax form number — for instance, [Form 1040](/1040). Saying "all forms" isn't adequate
- Year or period of pertinence — for instance, 2020. Saying "throughout the years" or "all periods" isn't adequate

You'll likewise have to give specific information about your agent or representative, for example,

- Name, address, telephone number, and fax number
- [Preparer Tax Identification Number](/ptin) (PTIN), which CPAs, attorneys, enrolled agent s, and paid tax preparers must recharge yearly
- Centralized Authorization File (CAF) number, which the IRS uses to recognize the representative

You must sign the form. In the event that you [filed jointly](/mfj) and every spouse needs to grant authority, each must file a separate Form 2848 to assign a representative (you don't have to utilize a similar representative).
<!--29D39B7C2E13AC4F52A5A62D3706E0EB-->
All pages of Form 2848 are accessible on the IRS website.

## Form 2848 versus Form 8821

Though Form 2848 permits a power of attorney to address a taxpayer before the IRS, Form 8821: Tax Information Authorization empowers somebody to receive and examine your confidential information without addressing you to the IRS. As such, you might utilize Form 8821 when you need somebody simply to see your tax information — as while you're applying for a mortgage and need to share your tax information with your lender.

## Features
- IRS Form 2848 approves individuals or organizations to address a taxpayer while showing up before the IRS.
- Signing Form 2848 and approving somebody to address you doesn't free a taxpayer from any tax liability.
- Authorized representatives, incorporate attorneys, CPAs, and enrolled agents.
