---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Tax Laws and Regulations
title: IRS Form 8949
description: Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form utilized by individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, and bequests to report capital gains and losses from investment.
---

# IRS Form 8949
## What Is IRS Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets?

Form 8949: "Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets" is a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) form utilized by individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, and domains to report capital gains and losses from investment. Taxpayers must utilize the form to report short-and long-term capital gains and losses from sales or investment exchanges.

Before 2011, taxpayers utilized just [Schedule D](/scheduled) to report such transactions.

## Who Can File Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets?

As per the IRS, individuals, partnerships, corporations, trusts, and bequests are able to file this form.

Individuals must utilize the form to report the accompanying:

- The sale or exchange of a capital asset not reported on another form or schedule
- Gains from involuntary transformations (other than from casualty or theft) of capital assets not utilized in your trade or business
- Non-business bad debts
- Uselessness of a security
- The election to concede capital gain invested in a Qualified Opportunity Fund
- The disposition of interests in Qualified Opportunity Funds(s)

Anybody filing a [joint return](/jointreturn) must complete as many duplicates of the form important to report their transactions along with those of their spouse. The forms might be combined or separate, but the sums from each completed Form 8949 must be moved to Schedule D for both spouses.

Along with the rundown above, corporations can report on Form 8949 the sale of stock of a predefined 10%-claimed foreign corporation, adjusted for the profits got deduction under section 245A, but provided that the sale would somehow produce a loss.

> Taxpayers with an eligible gain can invest it into a Qualified Opportunity Fund and choose to concede part or the entirety of that gain.
>
## The most effective method to File Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets

A [capital gain](/capitalgain) or loss is created when a capital asset is sold and must be reported to the IRS for tax purposes. [Schedule D: "Capital Gains and Losses"](/scheduled) of tax Form 1040 is utilized to report most capital gain (or loss) transactions. But before an individual can enter the net gain or loss on Schedule D, Form 8949 must be completed. The transactions taxpayers must report on Form 8949 are reported by brokerages yearly to the IRS and to taxpayers utilizing Form 1099-B: Proceeds from Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions.

Now and again, Form 1099-B won't report the cost basis of the assets. If so, the taxpayer must determine the basis amount to work out the gain or loss from a capital asset utilizing a separate Form 8949. A capital asset transaction for which no Form 1099-B (or substitute statement) is issued must be listed on another Form 8949. Form 8949 can likewise be utilized to address any mistakes in the data reported on Form 1099-B. On the off chance that the capital losses or gains for the year are reported for all assets on 1099-B with the right basis, a Form 8949 isn't required; Schedule D, notwithstanding, must in any case be filed.

Along with the filer's name and taxpayer identification number, the form has two parts that should be filled in. Part I manages short-term holding periods. This period is typically one year or less. Part II is utilized for long-term transactions, which are held for over one year.

## Other Relevant Forms

As referenced above, Schedule D and [Form 1099-B](/form-1099-b) are likewise required. Form 1099-B reports the [cost basis](/costbasis) of the investor's buy and sell transactions. In effect, Form 8949 reflects information about transactions that are caught on Form 1099-B, as well as from the taxpayer's own records.

## Download Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets Here

Click this connect to download a copy of Form 8949: Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets.

## Features
- Filing this form likewise requires a Schedule D and a Form 1099-B, which is given by brokerages to taxpayers.
- IRS Form 8949 is utilized to report capital gains and losses from investments for tax purposes.
- The form isolates short-term capital gains and losses from long-term ones.
