---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 1310
description: IRS Form 1310: Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer is utilized to request a federal tax refund in the interest of a deceased taxpayer.
---

# Form 1310
## What Is Form 1310: Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer?

Form 1310 is a tax form that informs the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the expire of a taxpayer during the tax year and claims any refund that is due to the person's beneficiaries or estate.

The form is filed as part of a complete tax return. This incorporates the standard Form 1040, which records the deceased person's income for the year. At times, it is additionally important to file Form 1041, which records any income that an estate or trust received after the taxpayer's death however before the assets were moved to the beneficiary.

Form 1310 is typically filed by a beneficiary of the deceased or by the executor of the estate of the deceased.

## Who Can File Form 1310: Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer?

As a general rule, an enduring spouse or other beneficiary or the [executor](/executor) of an estate files IRS Form 1310.

In the event that the deceased had a will, the executor named in the will is responsible for this filing.

Without a will, a [probate court](/probate-court) will name an individual to handle the executor's duties. This person is otherwise called a personal representative or administrator.

Probate court procedures fluctuate from one state to another. Generally, the court will consider a hierarchy of contender to act as a personal representative. The rundown starts with a spouse and other close family members and go on as important to incorporate more far off family members and even [creditors](/bank).

> The executor of the estate of the deceased is responsible for filing Form 1310.
>
## Step by step instructions to File Form 1310: Statement of Person Claiming Refund Due a Deceased Taxpayer

Form 1310 is an attachment to the standard [Form 1040](/1040) tax return which must be prepared for the beneficiaries.

The executor may likewise have to file taxes owed by the estate instead of the individual. In this case, the representative will be required to file Form 1041 alongside Form 1310. The 1041 form is required provided that the estate creates more than $600 in income each year.

On the off chance that filing a Form 1310 alongside a Form 1041, the IRS will issue the refund to the estate as opposed to any individual.

Executors ought to continuously request that any tax refund be paid with a physical check instead of an electronic refund. Most banks won't deposit money to an account under an alternate name without special authorization.

> Form 1310 must be mailed to the IRS. It can't be efiled.
>

Form 1310 asks a series of recognizing inquiries and requests legal documentation of the [taxpayer's status](/filingstatus) and the executor's arrangement. First, it requests the filer from the form to legitimize requesting the refund.

An enduring spouse need not present a death certificate in the event that the request is for a refund check made out to the two spouses. This is on the grounds that refunds in prior years would have referred to the two taxpayers' names.

A personal representative must present the suitable court certificate to request a refund. Without a court arrangement, the filing individual must present a copy of the death certificate and answer inquiries on Form 1310.
<!--1E65E07156FB7A7828F6124BC10D0625-->
All pages of Form 1310 are accessible on the IRS website.

## Illustration of IRS Form 1310

For instance, suppose a lady has kicked the bucket on March 30th of the year, leaving one little girl. Tragically, the deceased didn't have a will in place, and no personal representative has been selected by the court. Notwithstanding, she was due a $500 tax refund from the IRS at the hour of her death.

The girl must file Form 1310, alongside a last 1040 tax return, and mail it to the IRS.

In this case, the beneficiary isn't a spouse however a little girl. She will check the case for "other" on Form 1310 situated in Part One, line C.

Part II contains a couple of brief inquiries connected with the deceased and her estate.

Part III is the signature of the filer.

The girl doesn't have to send a copy of her mom's death certificate as proof, yet she ought to keep it for her records.

## Features
- Form 1310 is an attachment to the standard Form 1040. This will be the deceased's last tax form, recording income received in the time of the person's death.
- The form might be filed by the enduring spouse or other beneficiary or by a court-selected representative of the estate.
- This one-page form informs the IRS that a taxpayer has kicked the bucket and directs it to send the refund to the beneficiary.
- IRS Form 1310 is utilized to claim a federal tax refund for the enduring spouse or one more beneficiary of an as of late deceased taxpayer.
## FAQ
### Who Should File IRS Form 1310?
IRS Form 1310 is filed by the fundamental beneficiary of the estate of the deceased. This might be the spouse, a child, or one more family member of the deceased.If the person didn't leave a will, a probate court will name an executor. That person is then responsible for Form 1310.The purpose of the form is to tell the IRS that a taxpayer has kicked the bucket and to direct the agency to send any refund owed to the proper beneficiary.
### How Do I Fill Out IRS Form 1310?
Form 1310 is a genuinely direct one-page document.Its purpose is to tell the IRS that a taxpayer has passed on and that the tax refund that was due to that person ought to rather be shipped off an enduring spouse or another beneficiary.Line-by-line guidelines show up on the form, which can be downloaded on the IRS site.
### How Should I Manage an IRS Check Made Out to a Deceased Person?
This expects that a taxpayer filed a tax return however passed on before getting a refund check. On the off chance that there is an enduring spouse who filed jointly with the deceased, the refund will be made out to the two of them and can be deposited to the surprise of no one. In any remaining cases, documenting form 1310 requesting a refund for the sake of the beneficiary or the estate of the deceased is suitable.
### Where Do I Mail IRS Form 1310?
You'll mail Form 1310 to a similar Internal Revenue Service Center where the original tax return was filed.
