---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 8396
description: IRS Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit is utilized by homeowners to claim the mortgage interest credit, however you can claim it in the event that you receive a mortgage credit certificate.
---

# Form 8396
## What Is Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit?

Form 8396 is a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) form utilized by homeowners to claim the mortgage interest credit. The aim of the mortgage interest credit is to assist lower-income taxpayers with bearing the cost of homeownership. You can claim the credit on the off chance that you receive a [mortgage credit certificate](/mortgage-credit-certificate) (MCC) from a state or neighborhood government agency.

> - IRS Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit is filed by homeowners to claim the mortgage interest credit, yet just the individuals who receive a mortgage credit certificate from a nearby or state government agency can do as such.
> - The mortgage interest credit is intended for lower-to moderate-income earners to assist them with bearing the cost of homeownership.
> - Individuals who fit the bill for the mortgage interest credit can claim the credit every year for part of the mortgage interest paid.
>
>
## Who Can File Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit?

Any individual who was issued a MCC from a state or nearby government agency ought to file this form. As a general rule, a MCC is simply issued to lower-and moderate-income individuals regarding another mortgage to buy a primary residence. A MCC is issued under a qualified mortgage credit certificate program.

Individuals who qualify can claim the credit every year utilizing Form 8396 for part of the home mortgage interest paid.

## The most effective method to File Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit

The filer of Form 8396 must incorporate subtleties, including their name, the name of the issuer of the MCC, the certificate number and issue date, and their Social Security Number on the form.

Under Part I, the filer must figure out the current year's mortgage interest credit. The MCC will show the rate you will use to figure out your credit.

The IRS limits the mortgage interest credit to a maximum of $2,000 each year. Part II is utilized to decide the next year's carryforward credit.
<!--7105930B8279473701ABDC232E657828-->
Form 8396 is accessible on the IRS website.

When the form is completed connect it to your individual federal income tax return — [Form 1040](/1040), Form 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR.

> In the event that you have any unused credit to carry forward, keep a copy of Form 8396 to figure out your credit for the next year.
>
## Special Considerations When Filing Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit

There are a few limitations associated with the credit. The residence must meet specific price and value requirements relative to the neighborhood housing market. The home associated with the issued certificate must be in a similar jurisdiction as the responsible agency. The property must be the tax filer's primary residence.

Also, taxpayers who organize their [deductions](/tax-deduction) on [Schedule A](/schedulea) must offset the amount of their deduction for mortgage interest by the amount of the credit claimed.

Another mortgage credit certificate is issued in the event that the mortgage is renegotiated, and homeowners who sell their residence in no less than nine years might need to repay a portion of the credit issued.

## Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit versus Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement

Form 8396: Mortgage Interest Credit is not quite the same as [Form 1098: Mortgage Interest Statement](/form_1098). Form 1098 shows the amount of interest and related expenses paid on a mortgage during the tax year and is conveyed by banks and financial institutions. The loan interest displayed on the MCC is normally a similar amount in Box 1 of Form 1098.
