---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Tax Deductions and Credits,Deductions and Credits
title: Form 3903
description: Form 3903: Moving Expenses is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and utilized by taxpayers to deduct moving expenses connected with taking a new position.
---

# Form 3903
## What Is Form 3903: Moving Expenses?

Form 3903 is a tax form made by the [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) and utilized by taxpayers to deduct [moving expenses](/movingexpenses) connected with a new position. For tax years beginning after 2017, you can never again deduct moving expenses except if you are a member of the Armed Forces on active duty and, due to a military order, you move due to a permanent change of station.

## Who Can File Form 3903: Moving Expenses?

For tax a very long time prior to 2018, Form 3903 was utilized for each qualifying move a [taxpayer](/taxpayer) made in a tax year, which implied those with various job-related moves were required to finish up numerous forms. The IRS permitted taxpayers to utilize this form to deduct other reasonable moving expenses, for example, the cost of hiring professional movers or expenses connected with heading out to their new home.

Qualifying expenses included:

- The cost of boxes, tape, moving covers, bubble wrap, and other pressing necessities
- Rental fees for moving trucks and storage units
- [Travel costs](/travelexpenses), including plane fare, gas or mileage, and lodging costs
- The costs of moving other family members in a separate vehicle

In any event, for tax a long time prior to 2018, you were simply able to file Form 3903 on the off chance that you met certain requirements. First, your new position must be no less than 50 miles farther than the distance between your previous home and your old job. So on the off chance that your previous job was 14 miles from your former home, your new position must be 64 miles from your previous home. Members of the United States military, in any case, can claim their moving expenses no matter what the distance or employment requirements in the event that they are rolling out a permanent improvement in their military status like retirement or termination of service.

One more requirement for non-military taxpayers filing for tax a long time prior to 2018: you needed to move around a similar time as you start your new position. The time test qualification required filers to work at the new location for something like 39 weeks out of the 12 months following the move. In the event that you didn't pile up 39 weeks at the new position before the filing cutoff time, you were as yet able to file Form 3903 assuming you expected to breeze through the time assessment in your first year of employment.

Self-employed people were likewise able to file Form 3903, however their time test is more rigid. They were required to work at their new position for quite a long time in the first year after the move, and 78 weeks before the second's over year.

> A qualifying time and distance test must be completed to decide whether the costs of a move can be deducted.
>
## Instructions to File Form 3903: Moving Expenses

For tax a long time prior to 2018, you were required to complete a qualifying time and distance test to decide whether you had the option to deduct the costs of a move. By and by, Form 3903 is simply available to active members of the US military. There are no qualifying distance or time requirements for members of the armed powers who use the deductions.

To decide whether a taxpayer's moving expenses meet all requirements for the deduction, visit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) website or talk with an accomplished tax professional.
<!--963706B37EF04F42505A8896CA4C1C43-->
Form 3903 is available on the IRS website.

## Features
- For tax years beginning after 2017, Form 3903 must be utilized by members of the military.
- A taxpayer's new employment location must be something like 50 miles farther than the distance between their home and their old employer.
- Those with different job-related moves must finish up various forms.
