---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 6251
description: Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals is a form for deciding the amount of alternative least tax (AMT) owed to the IRS.
---

# Form 6251
## What Is Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals?

Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals is a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) tax form used to decide the amount of [alternative least tax](/alternativeminimumtax) (AMT) that a taxpayer might owe. A few taxpayers with higher incomes can claim certain deductions that permit them to reduce their customary tax obligation. The AMT draws an upper line on how much that deduction can be as an approach to guaranteeing that richer individuals pay an adequate amount of taxes. Assuming that you are among those to whom it applies, you'll pay the AMT rather than standard income taxes.

## Understanding Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals

Every taxpayer must assess whether they must pay AMT every year. Contingent upon your income level, you will not have to.

The AMT is a tax system parallel to the normal income tax. It was enacted in 1969 and was initially intended to recognize and collect taxes owed by a limited number of rich individuals and families who were in any case keeping away from income taxes.

It does this by limiting the number of [itemized deductions](/itemizeddeduction) that can be claimed by a taxpayer. Deductions for state and nearby taxes are not permitted, for instance. Furthermore, taxpayers impacted by the AMT can't take the [standard deduction](/standarddeviation).

> The AMT has two rates (26% and 28%) versus the seven federal tax brackets, which range from 10% to 37%.
>
## The most effective method to File Form 6251: Alternative Minimum Tax-Individuals

[Form 1040](/1040): U.S. Individual tax Return incorporates a worksheet that permits a taxpayer to decide if AMT is owed, yet it just provides fundamental calculations. Form 6251 is more nitty gritty and will offer a more accurate response, and essentially finishing it doesn't mean that it must be filed. Alternatively, you can utilize tax software or enroll a tax pro. Provided that there is AMT owed will Form 6251 must be appended to Form 1040.

The AMT requires impacted taxpayers to ascertain their tax bill under the [ordinary income tax](/ordinaryincome) system and again under the AMT, paying the higher of the two amounts. Subsequent to ascertaining your AMT, you can claim a [exemption](/exemption) in view of your filing status.

The AMT exemption is a lot higher than the standard exemption yet phases out when you arrive at a certain income level. In 2021, the AMT exemption for individual filers is $73,600 and for married joint filers, $114,600. In 2022, the AMT exemption for individual filers goes up to $75,900 and $118,100 for married joint filers. The exemption starts to phase out when income comes to $539,900 for individual filers and $1,047,200 for married joint filers.
<!--8E6B0CC5660A63E6F1860A52D4B57946-->
All pages of Form 6251 are accessible on the IRS website.

## Special Considerations

A lack of [inflation](/inflation) changes made the AMT apply to a lot bigger group of taxpayers than initially planned. Congress had passed annual inflation changes in accordance with limit the span of the AMT before establishing a permanent fix of indexing future exemption levels to inflation as part of the [American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012](/american-taxpayer-relief-act-2012).

The AMT collected $4.7 billion out of 2019, around 0.3% of individual income tax revenue. This is down essentially from the $36.2 billion collected in 2017, basically due to changes to the AMT that were part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017. Starting in 2018, for instance, TCJA set off a higher AMT exemption and the level at which the exemption starts to phase out.

## Features
- The AMT was intended to guarantee that the rich pay their fair share of taxes.
- Made in 1969, the AMT is a tax system parallel to the ordinary income tax.
- Form 6251 is utilized to decide whether taxpayers owe alternative least tax rather than standard income tax.
- The IRS brought the AMT up in 2022 to $75,900 for individuals and $118,100 for joint filers who are married.
- Changes to the AMT that were part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act extraordinarily reduced the number of taxpayers that are required to pay it.
