---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 4563
description: Form 4563: Exclusion of Income for Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa is an IRS form used to decide income earned in American Samoa that can be excluded from a taxpayer&#39;s gross income.
---

# Form 4563
## What Is Form 4563: Exclusion of Income for Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa?

Form 4563: Exclusion of Income for Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa is a tax form made and distributed by the [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS). Form 4563 decides the amount of income earned in American Samoa that can be excluded from a [taxpayer's gross income](/agi).

American Samoa is a unincorporated region of the United States situated in the South Pacific Ocean, southeast of the Independent State of Samoa. The IRS centers around the source of the income while figuring out what income can be excluded from taxpayers' claims. On the off chance that a taxpayer procures income from outside and inside American Samoa, all wages, salaries, or tips from outside are excluded from Form 4563. Any income earned from interest must be from a bank situated in American Samoa to fit the bill for Form 4563. [Dividend income](/investmentincome) may fit the bill for the exclusion in the event that it is from a company made or organized in American Samoa.

## Who Can File Form 4563: Exclusion of Income for Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa?

To meet all requirements for this exemption, the taxpayer must be either a resident of American Samoa or conduct business there.

"Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa" are the main individuals who need to finish up form 4563 and meet all requirements for the income exclusion, however what makes a resident bona fide? Many individuals consider the [183-day rule](/183-day-rule) a standard. The 183-day rule is part of the United States [Internal Revenue Code](/internal-revenue-code) and lays out whether an individual can be viewed as a bona fide resident of the United States for tax purposes. The 183-day rule implies an individual must be in the United States for at least 183 days inside a three-year sequential period. In applying the rule, the IRS incorporates exemptions for well-trained military personnel.

In Internal Revenue Code 937, the IRS has likewise spread out five rules for the [physical-presence test](/physical-presence-test) to figure out who qualifies as a resident of a U.S. domain for tax purposes. To be viewed as a resident of American Samoa under these rules, the individual must live in American Samoa for at least 183 days during the [taxable year](/fiscalyear). The individual likewise must have spent at least 549 days during the last three years in American Samoa, as well as the last 60 days of every one of those three years. Furthermore, the person must not have been available in the United States for over 90 days during the taxable year.

> Form 4563 is just important for taxpayers who are residents of American Samoa and a few individuals who carry on with work there.
>
## Instructions to File Form 4563: Exclusion of Income for Bona Fide Residents of American Samoa

Assuming that you meet all requirements for an exclusion of any of your income, you ought to complete Form 4563 and join it to your [Form 1040](/1040) when you file your income tax return. Note that you can't file Form 4563 without help from anyone else.
<!--3BFA9D02B7984DC02FFC3E918EAC3907-->
Form 4563 is accessible on the IRS website.

## Features
- Just taxpayers who are residents of American Samoa and a few individuals who carry on with work there need to finish up Form 4563.
- Form 4563 decides the amount of income earned in American Samoa that can be excluded from a taxpayer's gross income.
- Dividend income might meet all requirements for the exclusion in the event that it is from a company made or organized in American Samoa.
- In the event that a taxpayer procures income from outside and inside American Samoa, all wages, salaries, or tips from outside are excluded from Form 4563.
