---
keywords: Personal Finance,Retirement Planning,Retirement Savings Accounts
title: Form 8891
description: Form 8891 was an IRS form completed by U.S. citizens or residents who partook in registered Canadian retirement savings plans or income funds.
---

# Form 8891
## What Was Form 8891: U.S. Information Return for Beneficiaries of Certain Canadian Registered Retirement Plans?

Form 8891: U.S. Information Return for Beneficiaries of Certain Canadian Registered Retirement Plans was a [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) form completed by U.S. citizens or residents who took part in registered Canadian retirement savings plans or income funds. It was utilized to choose to concede U.S. income tax on these plans.

The IRS discontinued Form 8891 as of the tax year 2015.

## Understanding Form 8891

Form 8891: U.S. Information Return for Beneficiaries of Certain Canadian Registered Retirement Plans applied essentially to [registered retirement savings plans](/rrsp) (RRSPs) or [registered retirement income funds](/rrif) (RRIFs). A registered retirement savings plan is a savings and investment vehicle for employees and the self-employed in Canada, like the U.S. 401(k) plan. [Pretax](/pretax-earnings) money is set into a RRSP and develops tax-free until withdrawal, when it is taxed at the account holder's [marginal rate](/marginaltaxrate).

A registered retirement income fund is like a [annuity contract ](/annuitycontract)that pays out income to a beneficiary or a number of beneficiaries. To fund their retirement years, RRSP holders frequently roll over their RRSPs into a RRIF.

Form 8891 was utilized to report any contributions made and distributions received from these plans, along with earnings accrued inside the plan (even on the off chance that they weren't distributed.)

## Who Filed Form 8891?

Form 8891 was filed by any U.S. citizen or resident who contributed to or potentially received benefits from a RRSP or RRIF. The form was completed for any year the [taxpayer](/taxpayer) received a distribution from the plan. A separate form was required for each plan. The completed form was submitted to the IRS along with Form 1040, even on the off chance that a joint return was filed.

The taxpayer was required to finish up their personal information including name, address, and Social Security number. The form likewise required the name and address of the plan custodian (the financial institution or firm where the account was held) and the account number, as well as the type of plan. The remainder of the form required information in regards to the distributions and interest income, which was then placed on [Form 1040](/1040).

## Why Was Form 8891 Discontinued?

The IRS announced the elimination of Form 8891 on Oct. 7, 2014.

The change connected with a longstanding U.S.- Canada [tax treaty](/taxtreaty) provision that empowers U.S. citizens and resident outsiders to concede tax on income building in their RRSP or RRIF. In any case, U.S. tax is due every year on this [income](/income), even on the off chance that it isn't distributed.

Be that as it may, to fit the bill for the deferral, taxpayers needed to join Form 8891 to their return and pick this tax treaty benefit, something numerous eligible taxpayers failed to do. The agency additionally found numerous individuals neglected to appropriately plan Form 8891 every year and report insights regarding every one of their RRSPs or RRIFs, including contributions made, income earned, distributions received, and the year-end balance.

Subsequently, in the event that the forms were not as expected filled out or filed with the annual U.S. income tax return, income earned in their RRSP or RRIF might have been [taxable](/taxableincome) — whether the individual really pulled out the funds.

> Under the old system, a primary method for revising the exclusion of not filing Form 8891 and retroactively get the treaty benefit was to request a [private letter ruling](/plr) from the IRS, an exorbitant and frequently tedious cycle.
>

Thus, "to improve on procedures for U.S. taxpayers," the IRS discontinued Form 8891. They were not generally required to file it, for any tax year, past or present. What's more, the IRS gave retroactive relief to eligible taxpayers who failed to file the fitting forms in the past appropriately.

Because of the change, numerous U.S.- abiding taxpayers with RRSPs or RRIFs naturally meet all requirements for tax deferrals like those in other retirement vehicles, for example, [individual retirement accounts](/ira) (IRAs) and [401(k) plans](/401kplan). Most U.S.- abiding individuals are eligible for deferral as long as they appropriately file U.S. income tax returns.

## Features
- Form 8891 was important to concede paying U.S. income tax on these retirement vehicles' earnings.
- Form 8891 was filed by U.S. citizens or residents who took part in Canadian registered retirement savings plans or registered retirement income funds.
- The form was discontinued as of the tax year 2015.
