---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Tax Deductions and Credits,Deductions and Credits
title: IRS Form 4952
description: Form 4952 is an IRS tax form determining the investment interest expense that might be either deducted or carried forward to a future tax year.
---

# IRS Form 4952
## What Is Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction?

Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction is a tax form distributed by the [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) used to determine the amount of [investment interest expense](/investment-interest-expense) that can be deducted, as well as any interest expense that can be carried forward to a future tax year.

The IRS has various rules [taxpayers](/taxpayer) must follow relying upon where the interest comes from and whether it is investment, personal, business, or mortgage-related. On the off chance that an investor pays or [accrues](/gather) interest on a loan and uses the proceeds for several unique purposes, the taxpayer might need to dispense the interest to guarantee that the right interest rule is utilized.

## Who Can File Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction?

Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction must be filed by people, homes, or trusts seeking a deduction for investment interest expenses. That means in the event that you borrow money for an investment, you might have the option to get a [tax break](/tax-break). You can claim the interest on the investment as a deduction. Interest income might result from money borrowed explicitly to purchase investments like packages of land, commercial or residential investment properties, stocks, and non-tax-exempt bonds.

## Instructions to File Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction

There are three parts to Form 4952:

- **Part I:** Total Investment Interest Expense. Here, the taxpayer computes the total investment interest expense.
- **Part II:** Net Investment Interest. This figure is calculated after changes are made following the contribution of your gross income from property held for investment.
- **Part III:** Investment Interest Expense Deduction. Here, you compute any denied expense that can be carried forward to future years, and you figure out the current year's net investment interest expense deduction

The last figure from Part III is moved to line 9 of Schedule A.
<!--6C20FE5240789089058E412B39DADA19-->
Form 4952 is available on the IRS website page.

> The IRS limits the investment interest expense deduction to the taxpayer's net income from an investment.
>
## Exemptions That Don't Qualify for Form 4952: Investment Interest Expense Deduction

As indicated by the IRS, the following occasions act as special cases for filing the form:

- On the off chance that the [investment interest expense](/investment-interest-expense) is not exactly your investment income from interest and ordinary dividends minus any [qualified dividends](/qualifieddividend).
- On the off chance that you have no other deductible investment expense.
- There is no carryover of refused investment interest expense from the previous year.

Likewise, the following investments don't qualify:

- Home mortgage interest.
- Interest used to produce tax-exempt income like a municipal bond.
- Interest expenses that are appropriately allocable to passive activities. The IRS characterizes these as rental activities or any businesses where taxpayers don't really participate.
- Qualified dividends or long-term capital gains. Taxpayers are as of now getting tax breaks on these things, which are taxed at rates lower rates than most other income.

## Features
- IRS Form 4952 determines the amount of deductible investment interest expense too as interest expense that can be carried forward.
- The form must be filed by people, domains, or trusts seeking a deduction for investment interest expenses.
- Certain expenses can't be deducted, for example, home mortgage interest and qualified dividends.
