---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 2439
description: Form 2439 is an IRS form that mutual funds must ship off their shareholders to inform them of undistributed capital gains and taxes paid on those gains.
---

# Form 2439
## What Is Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains?

Form 2439 is an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) form that [Regulated Investment Companies](/ric)(RICs)- mutuals funds and exchange-traded funds-and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are required to convey to shareholders to report undistributed long-term capital gains. Mutual funds are required to disperse most capital gains to shareholders, and the shareholders report these gains on Form 1099-DIV. Be that as it may, assuming that the fund company chooses to hold these gains, it must pay taxes for shareholders and report these transactions on Form 2439.

## Understanding Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains

Form 2439 is delivered by the [U.S. Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) for use by RICs and REITs to inform shareholders of long-term [capital gains](/capitalgain) that it has not distributed to its investors. This retention of capital gains is moderately rare. Regulations require fund companies to dispense practically all gains to investors in a transaction known as a capital gains distribution. Funds will more often than not aggregate capital gains in that frame of mind of November and December, however can generally caution investors with an estimate in advance. This is especially true of actively-managed funds, which lead more trades inside their portfolios. [Index funds](/indexfund) will generally contain more static portfolios and along these lines produce less and more unsurprising capital gains.

Investors whose shares are held in tax-free accounts, for example, a [Individual Retirement Account ](/ira)(IRA), may file a Form 990-T to claim a tax refund on the taxes paid by the fund company. Shareholders subject to federal taxation must likewise change the [basis](/basis) for their shares up. To do as such, they first take away the taxes reported by the fund company on Form 2439 from the capital gains reported on a similar form. They ought to then add that difference to the prior cost basis.

> Form 2439 must be referred to by shareholders, even on the off chance that they don't claim the retained gains, to report the gains and taxes on their own [Form 1040](/1040), Schedule D, line 11.
>

Companies that need to file Form 2439 ought to complete Copies A, B, C, and D for every shareholder for whom the regulated investment company (RIC) or real estate investment trust (REIT) paid tax on undistributed capital gains under section 852(b)(3)(D) or 857(b)(3)(C). Then, they ought to join Copy An of all Forms 2439 to Form 1120-RIC or Form 1120-REIT when it is filed at the fitting IRS service center. Outfit Copies B and C of Form 2439 to the shareholder by the 60th day after the finish of the RIC's or the REIT's tax year. Hold Copy D for the RIC's or alternately REIT's records.
<!--F573E1EB7F1B55C30AFFA7A2B05284F3-->
Form 2439 is accessible on the IRS website.

## Benefits and Disadvantages of Form 2439: Notice to Shareholder of Undistributed Long-Term Capital Gains

The net consequence of a capital gains allocation is basically indistinguishable to the shareholder than a capital gains distribution. In distribution, the investor who gets a capital gains dividend in cash pays taxes on that gain, then reinvests the remainder in new shares, which ought to make very much like outcomes to the investor who gets a Form 2439 from the fund.

One expected difference between a capital gains allocation and a capital gains distribution is that, since it falls into a higher income bracket, the fund company probably pays a higher tax rate on the gains that it holds, while the individual might be subject to a lower rate. By reporting the dollar amount paid by the fund company on their individual Form 1040, the shareholder might benefit from the inconsistency between the fund company's tax rate and their own.

## Features
- The net consequence of a capital gains allocation is basically no different for the shareholder as a capital gains distribution.
- On the off chance that a fund company chooses to hold its capital gains, instead of disseminate them to shareholders, it must pay taxes for shareholders and report these transactions on Form 2439.
- Form 2439 is an IRS form that Regulated Investment Companies (RICs)- mutuals funds and exchange-traded funds-and Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) are required to disperse to shareholders to report undistributed long-term capital gains.
