---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Income tax,Income tax Forms
title: Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return
description: Form 4506 is an IRS document that is utilized to request precise duplicates of prior years&#39; tax returns.
---

# Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return
## What Is Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return?

Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return is filed by taxpayers to request precise duplicates of at least one previously filed tax returns and tax information from the [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS). Duplicates might be expected to complete a current-year tax return, correct a prior-year tax return, file a claim for a [refund](/refund) or abatement, apply for government benefits, apply for federal student aid, check income during a loan application process, or safeguard an IRS audit.

There is a fee for getting a full copy of a tax return. At times, a free record — a shorter printout of the return information — may serve a taxpayer's need just too.

## Who Can File Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return?

Taxpayers requesting duplicates of previously filed tax returns can file Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return. You can likewise request a copy to be shipped off an outsider. Outsiders could incorporate a mortgage lender confirming your income with the IRS. In this case, you sign and file Form 4506, and the IRS sends the tax return copy straightforwardly to your lender.

## How to File Form 4506, Request for Copy of Tax Return

Form 4506 can be filed when a precise copy of a previously filed tax return is required. A scope of tax returns, including the [Form 1040](/1040) series of individual tax returns, Form 1120 series corporate tax returns, [Form 1065](/form-1065) partnership tax returns, and Form 1041 estate or trust tax returns, can be requested. Form 4506 must be completed and mailed to the IRS at the mailing address shown on the form.

There is a $43 fee charged for each tax period requested. Duplicates are generally accessible for returns filed in the current year as well as the previous six years.
<!--85AB0F9D346C533AAE40070C57725354-->
## Download Form 4506, Request For Copy of Tax Return Here

All renditions of Form 4506 are accessible on the IRS website.

> The IRS takes around 75 calendar days to handle requests and deliver duplicates.
>
## Other Relevant Forms

Different forms in the 4506 series incorporate Form 4506-T, Request for Transcript of Tax Return and Form 4506-T-EZ, Short Form Request for Individual Tax Return Transcript. They allow you to request a record — a printout, without any connections — of a previously filed tax return.

A record of a previously filed tax return can be requested by downloading, finishing, and mailing Form 4506-T.

Form 4506-T can be filed when you really want a record of your tax return or tax account information, [Form W-2](/w2form) information, and 1099 information. Tax return records are accessible for the current and past three tax years and just for the following returns: Form 1040 series, Form 1120 series, and Form 1065. Assuming you register online with the IRS, you can move it right away and free of charge.

An individual tax return record of your previously filed and handled 1040 series tax return can likewise be requested free of charge utilizing the simplified Form 4506-T-EZ.

> A tax return record is a computer printout of your income tax return information. It shows filing dates, filing status, wards, [adjusted gross income](/agi), and tax liability. The record shows most details contained on your return as it was initially filed, however it's as yet shorter than a full copy with all connections. It doesn't show changes made after the return was handled.
>

In the event that tax information is required direly, a record can be given free of charge by utilizing the IRS's online Get Transcript device or calling the IRS at 1-800-908-9946. Records are accepted as a substitute for a precise copy of a return by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, by student loan and mortgage lending agencies, and other outsiders seeking to check taxpayer income. As a matter of fact, the tax return record was made explicitly to fulfill mortgage lenders' requests for the tax return information of their borrowers.

Starting around 2019, the IRS has a new record format that safeguards against identity theft and fraud. For instance, just the last four digits of your [Social Security number](/ssn) and telephone number are noticeable. Taxpayers can in any case request an exposed adaptation, however it will simply be mailed to their address of record.

## Special Considerations When Filing Form 4506

When paper-filing any of the Form 4506 series, duplicates and records of [jointly filed](/jointreturn) tax returns might be requested by one or the other spouse, and just a single signature is required. When utilizing Get Transcript online, either the primary or secondary spouse on a joint return can make the request. When utilizing Get Transcript via mail or telephone, just the primary taxpayer on the return can make the request.

## Features
- In the event that you needn't bother with a precise copy of your return, Forms 4506-T and 4506-T-EZ allow you to request free records of a previously filed tax return.
- It currently costs $43 to get a copy of your return.
- You can request a scope of various types of previously filed tax returns, returning six years or seriously relying upon the form.
- Form 4506 is filed by taxpayers to request precise duplicates of previously filed tax returns and tax information.
## FAQ
### How Long Does It Take to Receive Documents After Filing a Form 4506 or 4506-T?
In the event that you utilize the "Get Transcript" option on the IRS website, you can download your forms right away. In the event that you request a record via mail, it could require 5 to 10 calendar days for it to show up at your address on file with the IRS. Assuming that you finish up Form 4506 to request a precise copy of your tax return, you can anticipate that it should take up to 75 calendar days.
### Why Does My Lender Want a Form 4506-T?
Mortgage lenders might expect you to finish up Form 4506-T as part of your mortgage application. It allows them to get a record of your tax return information straightforwardly from the IRS. They use it to confirm the other income documentation you gave during the loan application process.
### Is a Transcript Sufficient for My Mortgage Lender?
Records can ordinarily be utilized as a substitute for a precise copy of a return by mortgage lending agencies. As a matter of fact, they were made explicitly to supply mortgage lenders with the tax return information of their borrowers.
### What Is IRS Form 4506 and 4506-T?
IRS Form 4506 can be filed by taxpayers to request a precise copy of a previously filed return and tax information. For circumstances not needing a precise copy of a return, Forms 4506-T and 4506-T-EZ can be filed to get free records of a previously filed tax return.
