---
keywords: Business,Small Business,Small Business Taxes,Taxes
title: Form 2106
description: Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses is a tax form distributed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
---

# Form 2106
## What Is Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses?

Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses is a tax form distributed by the [Internal Revenue Service](/irs) (IRS) utilized by employees to deduct ordinary and essential expenses connected with their jobs. Ordinary [expenses](/cost) are generally viewed as common and accepted in a particular line of business, while fundamental expenses are those that are useful in leading business.

Starting in the tax year 2018, unreimbursed employee [business expenses](/businessexpenses) could never again be claimed as a tax deduction for the majority of taxpayers. Presently, the main individuals who can utilize Form 2106 are Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing craftsmen, fee-based state and nearby government authorities, and employees with impedance related work expenses. Prior to 2018, any employee with unreimbursed work expenses could utilize Form 2106 to claim those expenses as a miscellaneous itemized deduction.

There was another rendition of the form. Form [2106-EZ](/form-2106-ez): Unreimbursed Employee Business Expenses was a simplified variant and was utilized by employees claiming a tax deduction in view of unreimbursed expenses connected with their jobs. This form was discontinued after 2018 after the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) went into effect.

> Taxpayers used to have two options for claiming job-related expenses as a tax deduction. They could take this above-the-line deduction, or they could claim an itemized deduction for unreimbursed job expenses for W-2 income. Tax reform disposed of the itemized deduction option when the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) went into effect in 2018.
>
<!--47A0C5E8125BE16DA87C6D2B57DDFE41-->
Form 2106 is available on the IRS website.

## Who Can File Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses?

As per the IRS, just the following taxpayers can utilize Form 2106:

- Armed Forces reservists
- Qualified performing specialists
- Fee-premise state or neighborhood government authorities
- Employees with weakness related work expenses
- Prior to 2018, any employee with unreimbursed work expenses could utilize Form 2106 to claim those expenses as a miscellaneous itemized deduction

## How to File Form 2106: Employee Business Expenses

There are two parts to Form 2106. Part I classifies all employee business expenses and repayments. This part then works out whether, and which, expenses were eligible for a tax deduction. These incorporate vehicle expenses, parking, toll, transportation charges, and other business expenses. The filer additionally incorporates any repayments made by the employer.

Part II arrangements all the more explicitly with vehicle expenses. Filers have two options. They can utilize the standard mileage rate, which means increasing the IRS mileage rate for the tax year by the number of business-qualifying miles driven. The mileage rate factors in gasoline and repair expenses, plus wear-and-tear on the average vehicle. For 2021, it is set at 56 pennies for each mile (down from 57.5 pennies in 2020).

The subsequent method is to work out actual expenses. These incorporate gasoline, oil, repairs, insurance, registration, and depreciation which is factored with the utilization of a table in the guidelines. You are not able to deduct interest on vehicle loans. There are likewise limits on vehicle valuations. Whether you utilized standard mileage or actual expenses, expenses incurred commuting to and from work are not viewed as eligible business expenses.

## Features
- This form is utilized by Armed Forces reservists, qualified performing craftsmen, fee-premise state or neighborhood government authorities, and employees with weakness related work expenses.
- Form 2106 is utilized by employees to deduct ordinary and fundamental expenses connected with their jobs.
