---
keywords: Trading,Futures Commodities Trading,Futures Commodities Trading Strategy and Education,Crypto,Futures and Commodities Trading,Strategy and Education
title: Futures Contract
description: Futures Contract. A legal agreement made between a buyer and a seller to trade an asset at a predefined price and date from here on out.
---

# Futures Contract
Futures contracts, frequently alluded to as futures, are agreements that tight spot traders to buy or sell assets in the future at a specific price and date. These financial instruments are regularly involved by the two hedgers and examiners as an approach to possibly expect future price movements, either for hedging against risks or for creating gains.
A futures contract determines the number of units of an asset that will be bought or sold, as well as the price and the time at which the asset will "change hands." Settlement of the contract happens when it arrives at its expiration date, at which point whoever holds the futures is committed to buy or sell the underlying asset for the agreed upon price.
Despite the fact that futures can be held until they lapse, numerous examiners and traders like to buy and sell the contracts on the open market prior to their expiration. In the wake of taking a futures contract position, there are three primary actions that futures traders can use for leaving their positions. The first and most common one is offsetting, which alludes to the act of closing a position by making one more of equivalent value and size. The second common alternative is known as rollover. Futures traders might choose to roll overstretch) their position before the contract is finished. To do as such, they previously offset their position and afterward open another batch of futures contracts of a similar size, however with an alternate expiration date (further from now on). The third option is to just hang tight for the expiration date and contract settlement. At settlement, all gatherings included are legally committed to exchange their assets (or cash) as per their futures contract position.
While futures contracts are a type of derivative, they contrast from other recognizable derivatives like options and forwards. Options give a trader the choice to buy an asset at a specific time, yet don't need that they actually do as such, while execution is a requirement in a futures contract. Forward contracts are basically the same as futures contracts yet are normally casual or private agreements made between two gatherings, instead of contracts traded through a proper exchange. Furthermore, forward contracts will quite often offer traders greater flexibility with regards to modifying terms, while futures contracts are normalized and more restrictive.
Several unique types of assets can be traded utilizing futures contracts, like fiat currencies, stocks, [indexes](/file), officially sanctioned debt instruments, and cryptocurrencies. Oil, precious metals, agricultural goods, and different commodities are likewise traded using futures contracts.
Past the different underlying assets that futures can be based on, there are likewise two distinct ways for the contracts to be settled. In physical settlements, the underlying asset is physically delivered to the party who has agreed to buy it. Cash settlements, conversely, don't include the direct transfer of the asset. An illustration of cash-settled futures contracts is the CME Bitcoin Futures market, which doesn't actually trade Bitcoins however just cash-based contracts as per the market performance of the underlying cryptocurrency.
Just likewise with most investment and trading instruments, futures traders frequently utilize specialized analysis indicators along with [fundamental analysis](/fundamentalanalysis) to get further experiences about the price action of futures contracts markets.

## Features
- A futures contract permits an investor to hypothesize on the direction of a security, commodity, or financial instrument, either long or short, utilizing leverage.
- Futures contracts are financial derivatives that oblige the buyer to purchase some underlying asset (or the seller to sell that asset) at a foreordained future price and date.
- Futures are likewise frequently used to hedge the price movement of the underlying asset to assist with keeping losses from unfavorable price changes.
## FAQ
### What Happens If a Futures Contract Is Held Until It Expires?
Except if the contract position is [closed out](/closeposition) prior to its expiration, the short is committed to make delivery to the long, who is committed to take it. Contingent upon the contract, the values exchanged can be [settled in cash](/cashsettlement). Most frequently, the trader will basically pay or receive a cash settlement relying upon whether the underlying asset increased or diminished during the investment holding period. Now and again, be that as it may, futures contracts will require [physical delivery](/physicaldelivery). In this scenario, the investor holding the policy upon expiration would be responsible for putting away the goods and would have to cover costs for material taking care of, physical storage, and insurance.
### Who Uses Futures Contracts?
Examiners can utilize futures contracts to wager on the future price of some asset or security. Hedgers use futures to lock in a price today to reduce market vulnerability among now and the time that great is to be delivered or received. [Arbitrageurs](/arbitrageur) trade futures contracts in or across related markets, exploiting hypothetical mispricings that might exist briefly.
### How Might I Trade Futures?
Contingent upon your broker and your account status with that broker, you might be eligible to trade futures. You will require a margin account and be approved to do as such. Qualified traders in the U.S. will frequently can trade futures on various exchanges like the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME), [ICE Futures](/intercontinentalexchange) U.S. (Intercontinental Exchange), and the CBOE Futures Exchange (CFE).
### Are Futures and Forwards the Same Thing?
These two types of derivatives contract function similarly, yet the principal difference is that futures are exchange-traded and have normalized contract specifications. These exchanges are exceptionally regulated and give transparent contract and pricing data. Forwards, interestingly, trade over the counter (OTC) with terms and contract specifications modified by the two gatherings included.
### Why Is It Called a Futures Contract?
A futures contract gets its name from the fact that the buyer and seller of the contract are consenting to a price today for some asset or security that will be delivered from now on.
