---
keywords: Economy,Economics
title: Group of Eight (G-8)
description: The Group of Eight (G-8) was an assembly of the world&#39;s most developed economies that met occasionally to examine international economic issues. It has been supplanted by the G-7.
---

# Group of Eight (G-8)
## What Was the Group of Eight (G-8)?

The Group of Eight (G-8) was an assembly of the world's largest [developed economies](/developed-economy) that have laid out a position as pacesetters for the [industrialized](/industrialization) world. Leaders of member countries, the United States, the United Kingdom (U.K.), Canada, Germany, Japan, Italy, France, and as of not long ago, Russia, meet occasionally to address international economic and monetary issues.

In 2014, Russia was suspended endlessly from the group in the wake of annexing Crimea, an autonomous republic of Ukraine. Accordingly, the G-8 is presently alluded to as the [G-7](/g7).

## Understanding the Group of Eight (G-8)

The G-8 was viewed as global policymaking at its highest level. Member nations employed significant power, as their combined wealth and resources involved roughly half of the whole [global economy](/economy). Leaders from the G-8 nations, including presidents, prime priests, bureau members, and economic advisors, would collect in this forum to exchange thoughts, conceptualize arrangements, and examine imaginative strategies that will benefit every individual nation, as well as the world as a whole.

The group's members periodically cooperated to assist with resolving global issues. In the past, they have examined [financial crises](/financial-crisis), [monetary](/monetarypolicy) systems, and major world emergencies like oil shortages, terrorism, and climate change.

> The G-7 meets each late spring in whichever country holds the rotating, drawn out administration.
>

While the current G-7 holds significant influence, it's anything but an official, formal entity like the [United Nations](/united-nations-un) (UN) and thusly has no legislative or legitimate power. The goal is to find answers for pressing issues and increase international cooperation, compiling suggested policies and plans that its members can work cooperatively to execute. None of the agreements came to, in any case, are legally binding.

## History of the Group of Eight (G-8)

The origins of the group date back to the mid 1970s, when leaders of the U.S., U.K., France, West Germany, Italy, and Japan met casually in Paris to talk about the then [recession](/recession) and [oil crisis](/1979-energy-crisis). Throughout the long term, new members joined, starting with Canada in 1976 and afterward Russia in 1997. This lineup of eight countries stayed active for quite a long time until Russia was removed in 2014.

Russia was suspended from the group after different members disagreed with its addition of Crimea, an autonomous republic of Ukraine. By 2017, Russia announced its expectation to pull out from the G-8, bringing the number of active members down to seven permanently.

## Special Considerations

Without Russia, the G-8 has turned into the G-7. Notwithstanding, there is as yet a chance that Russia could rejoin the group again.

Former U.S. President Donald Trump actively campaigned to readmit Russia to the organization and to be welcome to the G-7 conference in 2020. French President Emmanuel Macron appeared to be in agreement with this thought on the condition Russian President Vladimir Putin end the Ukrainian conflict. Nonetheless, the meeting was canceled due to the coronavirus pandemic.

## Reactions of the Group of Eight (G-8)

Hostile to [capitalism](/capitalism) and hostile to [globalization](/globalization) dissents, some of which have turned fierce, have turned into an unmistakable installation at G-8 and G-7 summits. Pundits frequently depict the group as a type of rich countries' club that disregards poor nations for pursuing their own interests.

A ton of objections in the past have based on the exclusion of delegates from [emerging](/emergingmarketeconomy) and developing nations. Pundits point out these economies play an increasingly important job in the global marketplace yet keep on being evaded by the privileged few.

In the midst of the reactions of G-8, in 2005, the U.K. furthermore, France drove to incorporate five emerging economies into the group — Brazil, China, India, Mexico, and South Africa. These countries would join the discussions occasionally, leading those specific meetings to be alluded to as G-8+5 or G13. The work was brief.

In the mean time, in 1999, a separate intergovernmental organization, known as [G-20](/g-20), was established, consisting of the G-7 members, the [European Union](/europeanunion) (EU), in addition to 12 different nations:

- Argentina
- Australia
- Brazil
- China
- India
- Indonesia
- Mexico
- Russia
- Saudi Arabia
- South Africa
- South Korea
- Turkey

The G-20 has the order to advance global [economic growth](/economicgrowth), international trade, and regulation of [financial markets](/financial-market).

## Highlights
- The G-8 didn't have legislative or legitimate power to uphold the suggested policies and plans it arranges. Neither does the G-7.
- The Group of Eight (G-8) was an intergovernmental organization that met intermittently to address international economic and monetary issues.
- The G-8 is currently alluded to as the G-7 since Russia, one of the original eight, was suspended from the group in 2014 subsequent to annexing Crimea.
