---
keywords: Investing,Fundamental Analysis,Sectors and Industries Analysis,Sectors and Industries
title: Growth Industry
description: A growth industry is the sector of the economy encountering a higher-than-average growth rate.
---

# Growth Industry
## What Is a Growth Industry?

A growth industry is that sector of an economy which experiences a higher-than-average growth rate as compared to different sectors. Growth industries are frequently new or trailblazer industries that didn't exist in the past. Their growth is a consequence of demand for new products or services offered by companies in the field. An illustration of a growth industry is the technology sector, whose products have become runaway hits with consumers and prompted multibillion-dollar valuations for tech companies in the stock market.

## Grasping Growth Industries

A few factors are responsible for catalyzing a growth industry.

One of them is the appearance of new and creative technologies that can drive entrepreneurs and startups to foster new products and services connected with the industry. Given the continually changing nature of technology, the reasoning behind investing in such technologies is the commitment of exponential future growth.

The smartphone industry, which pressed different imaginative technologies into a single telephone, turned into a growth industry during the prior part of this decade. In recent times, virtual reality (VR) and machine learning are two instances of such an approach. VR is a vivid, PC generated scenario that can mimic a genuine experience. It has applications across numerous industries, from VR headsets for gaming to reenactments for driving tests and for learning in medical schools.

Big data includes the processing of large measures of data for research or to recognize trends and statistical probabilities. Companies in big data offer types of assistance to large corporations or industries, like healthcare. Startups and companies in the sector have duplicated as the technology becomes well known. Investors ordinarily value companies at a different of their current earnings and their future growth potential.

Changes in regulations can likewise spike growth. For instance, growth in the healthcare industry is for the most part driven by changes in regulation connecting with insurance. The deregulation of power markets and greater awareness about sustainable living has additionally prompted investors placing their money into stocks for sunlight based companies and renewable energy companies. Medical pot is one more growth industry that appeared due to the unwinding of severe weed laws.

Tesla, Inc. (TSLA), which has among the highest valuations of vehicle companies, is an illustration of a company that benefits from changing regulations and its technology chops. Investors have rushed to the company due to its commitment of a greener future as well as its cars, which incorporates best in class technology.

A third factor driving growth industries is a change in lifestyle and consumer inclinations. With more recreation time and the availability of technology and transportation options, consumers have started voyaging more. Travel applications and sites have proliferated. Travel-related startups, like Airbnb and Uber, have gathered record valuations in private markets and are viewed as hot commodities for public markets.

## Attributes of Growth Industries

Particular attributes of growth industries incorporate companies across an industry displaying steady and rapidly developing sales figures and a deluge of investments. This can frequently be joined by a great deal of press publicity. Growth industries will generally be made out of moderately unstable and risky stocks. Frequently investors will acknowledge increased risk to partake in the possibly large gains.

Extra risks that growth industries posture can incorporate high rates of cash burn, lack of profitability notwithstanding consumer and investor fervor, bubbles, and technological setbacks that can block progress.

## Growth Industries and CAGR

Numerous analysts utilize the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) while deciding the current feasibility and future capability of an investment. The CAGR is the mean annual growth rate of an investment over a set period of time longer than one year and can apply to companies in both growth and standard industries.

To work out compound annual growth rate, analysts partition the value of an investment toward the finish of the period by its value toward the beginning of the period. The analyst then, at that point, raises the outcome to the power of one, separated by the period length, and deducts one from the subsequent outcome:
<span class="katex"><span class="katex-mathml"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><semantics><mrow><mtext>CAGR</mtext><mo>=</mo><msup><mrow><mo fence="true">(</mo><mfrac><mtext>Ending Value</mtext><mtext>Beginning Value</mtext></mfrac><mo fence="true">)</mo></mrow><mrow><mo fence="true">(</mo><mfrac><mn>1</mn><mrow><mi mathvariant="normal">#</mi><mtext> of years</mtext></mrow></mfrac><mo fence="true">)</mo></mrow></msup><mo>−</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow><annotation encoding="application/x-tex">\text{CAGR}=\left(\frac{\text{Ending Value}}{\text{Beginning Value}}\right)^{\left(\frac{1}{\#\ \text{of years}}\right)}-1</annotation></semantics></math></span><span class="katex-html" aria-hidden="true"><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:0.68333em;vertical-align:0em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">CAGR</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span></span><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:2.25042em;vertical-align:-0.65002em;"></span><span class="minner"><span class="minner"><span class="mopen delimcenter" style="top:0em;"><span class="delimsizing size2">(</span></span><span class="mord"><span class="mopen nulldelimiter"></span><span class="mfrac"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.9322159999999999em;"><span style="top:-2.6550000000000002em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="sizing reset-size6 size3 mtight"><span class="mord mtight"><span class="mord text mtight"><span class="mord mtight">Beginning Value</span></span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.23em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="frac-line" style="border-bottom-width:0.04em;"></span></span><span style="top:-3.446108em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="sizing reset-size6 size3 mtight"><span class="mord mtight"><span class="mord text mtight"><span class="mord mtight">Ending Value</span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.481108em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mclose nulldelimiter"></span></span><span class="mclose delimcenter" style="top:0em;"><span class="delimsizing size2">)</span></span></span><span class="msupsub"><span class="vlist-t"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.6004em;"><span style="top:-3.9029em;margin-right:0.05em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="sizing reset-size6 size3 mtight"><span class="mord mtight"><span class="minner mtight"><span class="mopen sizing reset-size3 size6 mtight delimcenter" style="top:0.07500000000000001em;"><span class="mtight">(</span></span><span class="mord mtight"><span class="mopen nulldelimiter sizing reset-size3 size6"></span><span class="mfrac"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.8443142857142858em;"><span style="top:-2.656em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="sizing reset-size3 size1 mtight"><span class="mord mtight"><span class="mord mtight">#</span><span class="mspace mtight"><span class="mtight"> </span></span><span class="mord text mtight"><span class="mord mtight">of years</span></span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.2255000000000003em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="frac-line mtight" style="border-bottom-width:0.049em;"></span></span><span style="top:-3.384em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="sizing reset-size3 size1 mtight"><span class="mord mtight"><span class="mord mtight">1</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.48288571428571425em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mclose nulldelimiter sizing reset-size3 size6"></span></span><span class="mclose sizing reset-size3 size6 mtight delimcenter" style="top:0.07500000000000001em;"><span class="mtight">)</span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span><span class="mbin">−</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2222222222222222em;"></span></span><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:0.64444em;vertical-align:0em;"></span><span class="mord">1</span></span></span></span>
CAGR is widely used to work out the average growth of an investment. An investment might increase in value by 6% in one year, decline in value by 3% the next year and increase again by 2% in the next. With conflicting annual growth, CAGR might be utilized to give a more extensive image of an investment's progress; be that as it may, it doesn't consider outer factors like market volatility.

## Illustration of a Growth Industry

The weed industry has turned into an illustration of a growth industry in recent times. Cannabis had a terrible reputation and its possession and use was vigorously regulated in the country. The situation has changed in the last decade as a groundswell of prominent sentiment has prompted legislators changing their restrictive position on the plant. As of January 2019, 33 states have legalized medical pot and its utilization and possession is legal in 10 states. Universities are leading research into its purposes and applications to medical science. For instance, New York University researchers are utilizing it to treat approaching veterans with PTSD. Food entrepreneurs and refreshment companies are implanting their products with cannabis synthetic compounds. Investors have spent truckloads of cash on pot companies on growth expectations for what's in store.

## Highlights
- Analysts use CAGR to value growth industries.
- Growth industries are sectors of economies that experience higher-than-average growth due to new technologies or changes in cultural inclinations or government regulations.
- While they can be unstable and risky stocks, companies in growth industries are generally joined by press publicity and consistently expanding sales figures.
