---
keywords: Investing,Mutual Funds
title: Income Risk
description: Income risk is the risk that the income stream paid by a fund will diminish in response to a drop in interest rates.
---

# Income Risk
## What Is Income Risk?

Income risk is the risk that the income stream paid by a fund will diminish in response to a drop in [interest rates](/interestrate). This risk is most predominant in the [money market](/moneymarket) and other short-term income fund strategies (versus longer-term strategies that lock in interest rates). Income risk is an extension of the interest-rate risk on an individual bond.

## Understanding Income Risk

Income risk is the risk that the yield of a fund investing in [short-term debt](/shorttermdebt) securities will diminish due to a decline in interest rates. The vacillation of interest rates can frequently essentially affect the performance of different investments held by a short-term investment fund; this increases the degree of income risk for that fund. This is on the grounds that the income generated by the fund is ceaselessly reinvested at the current rate.

For instance, consider a [mutual fund](/mutualfund) that puts resources into money market securities with maturities of under a year. On the off chance that interest rates decline, the yield on the money market fund will likewise decline: when the money market securities mature, the returns are reinvested at lower interest rates. Income risk is a similar concept as [interest-rate risk](/interestraterisk), however the income risk applies to funds, while the interest-rate risk applies to individual debt securities.

The interest rates used to work out the payout from a money market fund are commonly somewhat less than the overarching rate. This means that on the off chance that the current interest rate is 4%, the money market might base income payment on a rate of 3.75%. Should the current interest rate dip to 3%, then, at that point, the money market will change as needs be, shifting the rate used to determine income payouts to 2.75%.

This approach makes it conceivable to constantly keep the payment below the amount of interest income generated, a factor that guarantees the money market stays equipped for generating more income later on. Simultaneously, any beneficiaries of the fund observe that their accessible income from the fund is diminished until interest rates increase.

### Limiting Income Risk

One strategy for limiting the degree of income risk associated with a portfolio is to differentiate the assets so that long-term investments with fixed rates of interest are balanced with short-term income fund holdings. Doing so causes a situation in which the fixed rates on the long-term investments offset any declines in income that might happen when interest rates drop. This assists with laying out a more reliable floor for income payouts, permitting beneficiaries to orchestrate their financial plans based on that base.

## Features
- Income risk is the risk that the yield of a fund investing in short-term debt securities will diminish in light of a decline in interest rates.
- This risk is most pervasive in the money market and other short-term income fund strategies.
- The change of interest rates can frequently essentially affect the performance of different investments held by a short-term investment fund; this increases the degree of income risk for that fund in light of the fact that the income generated by the fund is constantly reinvested at the current rate.
