---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Statements
title: Initial Cash Flow
description: Initial cash flow is the money accessible to a business project in its planning stages. It is generally a negative number as there is practically zero income.
---

# Initial Cash Flow
## What Is Initial Cash Flow?

Initial cash flow is the total money that is accessible when a project or business is in the planning stages. The figure incorporates any loans or investments made in the project. It is normally a negative figure since sending off a business requires capital investment with expectations of generating future income.

Initial cash flow is figured into the [discounted cash flow](/dcf) analysis that is utilized to assess the feasibility of a project.

Initial cash flow can likewise be called initial investment outlay.

## Grasping Initial Cash Flow

During the [capital budgeting](/capitalbudgeting) process, the engaging quality of a project is assessed in light of the cash flows that are expected to be generated by the project over its life, compared to the initial cash flow expected to kick it off.

Essentially any new business or business project goes through this interaction. On the off chance that a company is thinking about building another factory or venturing into another market, an analysis of its initial cash flow is embraced. An investor who is thinking about bankrolling another venture will conduct a comparable analysis to assist with concluding whether it's worth the investment.

### What Initial Cash Flow Includes

The initial cash flow figure incorporates all operating and equipment costs for the planning stage.

Now and again, the total might be offset by the salvage value. For example, on the off chance that a company is retooling a plant to adjust it for the production of another product, old equipment at this point not required may be sold off. In such cases, the capital gains tax or loss on the sale is additionally considered in.

The net proceeds will offset the cash outlay for the project.

### Future Value

Utilizing discounted cash flow analysis, the [future value](/futurevalue) of the cash flows over the life of the project is brought back to its [present value](/presentvalue) to assist with determining whether it is worth the investment.

The initial cash flow is paid in toward the beginning of the project. This number isn't discounted in light of the fact that it's anything but a future value yet a current one. It is "time zero."

This analysis is significant. A blunder in the cash flow or discount rate assessment can lead a company to embrace an unrewarding project.

## Illustration of Initial Cash Flow Analysis

Say a local restaurant needs to venture into home dinner delivery. The restauranteur must start by considering the unexpected supplies expected to pull this off, from containers and other paper goods to a dedicated telephone and a vehicle. There additionally will be payroll costs for the delivery staff.

There might be no extra equipment costs since the kitchen is adequate for the expanded service. No salvage costs since nothing is are being supplanted.

Presently, how much money does the restauranteur hope to acquire once home delivery is on the menu? The restauranteur can estimate it in view of current business activity and information on the neighborhood market.

However long the estimated income is greater than the initial cash flow, the project might worth seek after.

### Dissecting the Alternatives

In this model, as in numerous others, the business owner might be shrewd to conduct extra examinations on the alternatives for a home delivery business. An alliance with DoorDash or UberEats would essentially reduce the restaurant's initial cash flow number.

Notwithstanding, delivery applications charge both the restaurant and the customer for each order. Also, that reduces the business cash flow, initially as well as long term.

## Highlights
- In certain projects, salvage proceeds from discontinued ventures might be considered by deducting those gains from the initial cash flow total.
- Due to the high cost of startups, initial cash flow is commonly a negative number.
- Initial cash flow addresses the upfront costs or initial cash outlay engaged with starting another project or purchasing an asset.
