---
keywords: Investing,Stocks
title: Investability Quotient (IQ)
description: Investability Quotient (IQ) is the name of Standard and Poor&#39;s proprietary method for assessing a stock&#39;s performance and likely risks.
---

# Investability Quotient (IQ)
## What Was the Investability Quotient (IQ)?

The term Investability Quotient (IQ) alludes to a proprietary instrument developed by [Standard and Poor's](/sp) (S&P) that assessed a stock's investment qualities across a universe of companies. The IQ indicated a stock's medium-to long-term [return](/return) possibilities as well as its [downside risk](/downsiderisk) potential

It calculated in a number of components in its assessment and relegates a single number to rank the stock against its industry peers. S&P Global currently offers a platform called S&P Capital IQ, which offers an extensive variety of data and analysis devices for investigating [publicly traded companies](/publiccompany) and [financial markets](/financial-market).

## How the Investability Quotient (IQ) Worked

Standard and Poor's sent off its Investability Quotient (IQ) system in 2001. The system joined the ranks of the company's existing proprietary apparatuses, analysis, data, platforms, and applications. Thusly, it was the company's proprietary method of ranking investments in terms of performance and likely risks.

To rank a stock, the IQ considered a number of factors, including:

- A company's [credit rating](/creditrating)
- The [liquidity](/liquidity) of its assets
- The relative wellbeing and strength of the company
- The [volatility](/volatility) of the industry at some random time

By incorporating these essential [fundamentals](/fundamentals), the system derived a single number to show how well a stock might perform over the long haul along with any associated risks to that particular investment. The rating assigned is anyplace between one (most awful) and 100 (best). The IQ measure permits analysts and investors to compare a stock with its companions and assists them with making cross-industry correlations without any problem.

IQ is presently wrapped up in a lot bigger assortment of devices called S&P Capital IQ. It is a comprehensive platform containing instruments, scanners, research, [charting](/specialized analysis-of-stocks-and-patterns), ratings, analytics, valuations, financial statement data, as well as different elements.

> Investors were forewarned to involve the system as an instrument as opposed to a manual for picking investments since company ratings change.
>
>
>
>
## Special Considerations

S&P's IQ apparatus depended on two of its previous systems. These systems were the Stock Appreciation Ranking System (STARS) and the Quality Rankings system. These instruments are presently part of the S&P Capital IQ platform, along with numerous other ranking methods, [analytics](/data-analytics), and scanners.

### Stock Appreciation Ranking System (STARS)

STARS generated qualitative coverage of which were publicly traded companies. S&P's equity [research analysts](/research-expert) utilized STARS to rank a company's stock performance possible somewhere in the range of six and 12 months.

Stocks were rated utilizing a star-rating system as follows:

- ***** Strong buy or five stars
- **** Buy or four stars
- *** [Hold](/hold) or three stars
- ** Sell or two stars
- * Strong sell or one star

### Quality Rankings

This system was made by S&P during the 1950s. It assessed in excess of 4,000 common stocks by measuring the growth and stability of a company's [earnings](/earnings) and [dividends](/profit) inside a single rank. This system assisted both individual and professional investors with recognizing securities that reliably outperform market indices on a [risk-adjusted](/riskadjustedreturn) basis.

## Illustration of Investability Quotient (IQ)

S&P Global routinely refreshes and refines its product offerings. The look and feel of its distributions, also the way that the reports are calculated or generated additionally change. Keep as a primary concern that ratings change as companies release new data.

Standard and Poor's company reports are likewise part of its research products. These reports are generated by S&P's team of global [equity](/equity) analysts. Each profile contains a small table that shows the backer's Investability Quotient, along with two different metrics. The picture below is an expanded illustration of a historical report showing the IQ score of Lincoln Electric Holdings (LECO) at 92.
<!--2910B31F47EA6AA4D6AB5E631AFC2E17-->
Investors had the option to utilize the company's IQ and compare it with its [industry](/industry) peer bunch. As referenced, ratings were subject to change and were not intended to be utilized as standalone indicators to determine the purchase or sale of stocks.

## Features
- Companies were given a rating somewhere in the range of one and 250 in light of these factors.
- The IQ scoring system is currently moved into complete analysis platforms, including S&P Capital IQ.
- The rating system calculated in company credit ratings, the liquidity of their assets, their wellbeing and strength, and industry volatility.
- Investability Quotient was a proprietary system developed by S&P to assess stocks.
