---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Fixed Income Essentials,Fixed Income
title: Long-Dated Asset
description: A long-dated asset is a type of income-creating asset with a revenue stream that happens over a long period of time until maturity.
---

# Long-Dated Asset
## What Is a Long-Dated Asset?

A long-dated asset is a type of income-creating asset, for example, residential [mortgages](/mortgage) and [30-year bonds](/30-yeartreasury), where the revenue streams happen until that asset's [maturity date](/maturitydate) (which is into what's to come).

## Figuring out a Long-Dated Asset

Institutional investors, for example, pension funds and insurance companies, invest in long-dated assets to match their long-term obligations. They might purchase [residential mortgage-backed securities](/rmbs) (RMBS), [commercial mortgage-backed securities](/cmbs) (CMBS), 30-year corporate bonds, [municipal bonds](/municipalbond), and [Treasury bonds](/treasurybond), as well as other long-dated assets, to receive progressing cash flows to meet their payment obligations. These assets can either be traded away for other long-term investment substitutes or held to maturity.

Long-dated assets carry greater [duration](/duration) risk. On the off chance that a holder of long-dated assets utilizes a [liability-matching](/liabilitymatching) strategy and interest rates rise, the fixed interest income stream that the holder receives over numerous years may not cover the long-dated liabilities.

For instance, banks generally hold long-dated assets, for example, residential mortgage-backed securities. Banks additionally have interest-sensitive liabilities, for example, demand deposits from savings accounts. Since the income generated by mortgages will in general be consistent over the life of the loans, the amount of money the bank receives from mortgages is limited to the rates that won at the hour of the loan origination.

Nonetheless, cash outflows from demand deposits are not generally limited and will increase in a rising interest rate environment. The outcome would be a reduction in [net interest margin](/netinterestmargin) for the bank and potentially financial distress on the off chance that the mismatch between long-dated assets and liabilities is sufficiently extreme.

## Types of Long-Dated Assets
### Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities (RMBS)

Residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) are a type of debt-based security that is backed by the interest paid on loans for personal or family residences. The interest on loans like mortgages, [home-value loans](/homeequityloan), and [subprime](/subprime) mortgages is viewed as something with a similarly low rate of default and a relatively high rate of interest, since there is a high demand for the ownership of a personal or family residence.

### Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS)

Commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) are fixed-income investment products that like residential mortgage-backed securities yet they are backed by mortgages on commercial properties instead of residential real estate. The underlying securities of CMBS might incorporate a number of commercial mortgages of changing terms, values, and property types —, for example, multi-family residences and commercial real estate.

### Treasury Bonds

Treasury bonds (T-bonds) are government debt securities issued by the U.S. federal government with [maturities](/maturitydate) greater than 20 years. T-bonds earn periodic interest until maturity. As of now, the owner is additionally paid an amount equivalent to the principal.

### Municipal Bonds

Municipal bonds are debt securities issued by state and neighborhood governments. Municipal bonds are utilized to fund public works, like parks, libraries, scaffolds and streets, and other infrastructure.

## Highlights
- A long-dated asset is a type of income-producing assets —, for example, residential mortgages and 30-year bonds — where the revenue streams happen until that asset's maturity date (which is into what's to come).
- Long-dated assets carry greater duration risk.
- Pension funds and insurance companies invest in long-dated assets to match their long-term obligations.
