---
keywords: Economy,Monetary Policy
title: M2
description: M2 is a measure of the money supply that incorporates cash and checking deposits (M1) as well as close to money.
---

# M2
## What Is M2?

M2 is a calculation of the money supply that incorporates all components of M1 as well as "close to money." M1 incorporates cash and checking deposits, while [near money](/close money) alludes to savings deposits, money market securities, and other [time deposits](/timedeposit) (in sums under $100,000). These assets are less liquid than M1 and not quite so suitable as exchange mediums, however they can be immediately changed over into cash or checking deposits.

## Grasping M2

Measuring the money supply of an economy is a difficult proposition. Due to the complexity of the concept of "money," as well as the size and level of detail of an economy, there are different approaches to measuring a money supply. These means of measuring a money supply are ordinarily classified as "M"s and fall along a range from narrow to broad [monetary aggregates](/monetary-aggregates). Normally, the "M"s range from M0 to M3, with M2 regularly addressing a genuinely broad measure.

M2 is a broader money classification than [M1](/m1) since it incorporates assets that are profoundly liquid however are not cash. A consumer or business regularly doesn't utilize savings deposits and other non-M1 parts of M2 while making purchases or paying bills, however it could change them over completely to cash in somewhat short order. M1 and M2 are closely related, and business analysts like to incorporate the more broadly defined definition for M2 while examining the money supply since modern economies frequently include transfers between various account types. For instance, a business might transfer $10,000 from a [money market account](/moneymarketaccount) to its checking account. This transfer would increase M1, which does exclude money market funds, while keeping M2 stable, since M2 contains money market accounts.

## The Money Supply

M2 as a measurement of the money supply is a critical factor in the forecasting of issues like inflation. Inflation and interest rates have major repercussions for the overall economy, as these intensely influence employment, consumer spending, business investment, currency strength, and trade balances. In the United States, the Federal Reserve distributes money supply data each Thursday at 4:30 p.m., however this main covers M1 and M2. Data on large-time deposits, institutional money market funds, and other large liquid assets are distributed on a quarterly basis and are remembered for the M3 money supply measurement.

## Changes in Money Supply

In the United States, the Federal Reserve's dual order is to balance unemployment and inflation. One of the manners in which it does this is by controlling M2 money supply. M2 gives important knowledge into the course, limit, and adequacy of central bank policy. M2 has developed alongside the economy, rising from $4.6 trillion in January 2000 to $18.45 trillion in August 2020. The supply never shrank year-over-year (YOY) anytime in that period. The most extreme growth happened in September 2001, January 2009, and January 2012, when the rate of M2 expansion beat 10%. These accelerated periods harmonized with [recessions](/downturn) and economic weakness, during which expansionary [monetary policy](/monetarypolicy) was sent by the central bank.

The economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic alongside the economic stimulus efforts that followed have additionally enormously expanded the money supply, with record quarterly increases in Q1 of 2021. Truth be told, February of 2021 saw a year-over-year increase of 27.12%.

## Features
- M2 is a broader measure of the money supply than M1, which just incorporates cash and checking deposits.
- M2 is a measure of the money supply that incorporates cash, checking deposits, and effectively convertible close to money.
- M2 is closely looked as an indicator of money supply and future inflation, and as a target of central bank monetary policy.
