---
keywords: Investing Basics
title: Market Bottom
description: What Is a Bottom in the Stock Market? In investing, a base alludes to the lowest price a security (or a whole market, as measured by a benchmark index)
---

# Market Bottom
## What Is a Bottom in the Stock Market?
In investing, a base alludes to the lowest price a security (or a whole market, as measured by a benchmark [index](/marketindex)) trades at over a specific period of time. This interval could be a day, seven days, a year, or 10 years, yet most conversations of the term center around periods of a year or more. In the event that you were taking a gander at a line graph portraying a security's price over the long run, the base would be the trough, or the lowest point on the line.
With regards to stocks, which normally outperform other asset classes like [bonds](/security) over the long term, the possibility of a market base comes up habitually during pullbacks, [corrections](/market-correction), bear markets, and different times when stock prices are slipping. At the point when stocks are sliding downward across the board, everybody needs to know when the base will be, as by and large, market bottoms are the best times to buy (and the most terrible times to sell) stocks.
Hypothetically, in the event that one could accurately time bottoms (and pinnacles), one would remain to make some steller returns. All things considered, the familiar saying "buy low, sell high" stays the main edict of investing. Tragically, notwithstanding, bottoms are typically distinguished everything considered, and accurately timing one is undeniably more effortlessly said than done. That doesn't, notwithstanding, stop classes of investors, both professional and novice, from endeavoring to do as such.

## Why Is It So Hard to Time a Bottom?
Stocks get more expensive when there are a larger number of buyers than sellers, and they go down in price when there are a greater number of sellers than buyers. In this way, hypothetically, when every individual who planned to sell a stock has done as such, just buyers ought to remain — the stock ought to have arrived at its base and be ready for a reversal. Tragically, in reality, buying and selling will quite often occur in waves as new data — like earnings, federal [interest rate](/interestrate) hikes, and [CPI](/consumerpriceindex) figures — opens up.
Truth be told, single days described by large rebounds in price are genuinely common during [bear markets](/bearmarket). Every one of these rebounds could mark a reversal and the beginning of a new [bull market](/bullmarket), yet as a rule, these are just brief green blips in a long, red slide. Even rebounds that last several days or weeks can end up being transitory, and lower bottoms might lie ahead.
In reality, the stock market is cyclical, however its cycles differ long, and without a gem ball, nobody can determine if a reversal will be impermanent or mark the beginning of a new and long-lasting bull market.

## Market Bottom Example: The S&P 500 of every 2020
The chart above shows the price of the [S&P 500](/sp500) index from mid-2017 to mid-2022. During the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in mid 2020, worldwide shutdowns prompted boundless [capitulation](/capitulation) (panic selling), making the index drop quickly to a lower part of about $2,200. This downturn was brief, notwithstanding, and went before a gigantic bull rally that took the index to another high of around $4,700 before another bear market grabbed hold.
Had an investor basically put their whole portfolio into a S&P 500 index fund in late March of 2020 when the market lined and sold at the bull rally's top in January of 2022, they might have realized a capital gain of around 210% in under two years. This sounds like an easy decision now, as hindsight is 20/20, yet at that point, nobody realized just how brief the COVID-19 selloff would be nor the way in which long the subsequent bull market would last.
## Do Stocks Usually Bottom at the Same Time?
During periods of vast decline, stocks, as a whole, fall in price. That being said, they don't the entire fall at similar rate or by similar rates, and they may not all base simultaneously. A few industries, similar to energy, will generally perform better than most equities during the late phases of the economic cycle. Different industries, similar to technology, will quite often be stirred things up around town at these times.
Various sectors respond to news distinctively and may top and base at various times. At the point when analysts examine a market base everything considered, they are generally alluding to the base price of a benchmark stock index like the S&P 500, which addresses by far most of the American equity market from an aggregate perspective.
## What Is a False Bottom?
A false base happens when brief relief lifts the price of a stock for a while, and investors expect a correction or bear market has reached a conclusion. On the off chance that this rise in price ends up being impermanent, and the stock or stocks being referred to fall down in price below their previous low, then, at that point, this first low would be considered a false base. False bottoms can happen somewhat often during bear markets.
## What Is a Double Bottom?
A double base is a "W" formed pattern in the chart of a stock or index that hypothetically happens toward the finish of a period of decline. At the point when this happens, a stock drops to a low price, starts to rebound, then, at that point, drops back to a comparable low. Investors who participate in technical analysis accept a double base can frequently signal a real reversal.
## How Might You Take Advantage of a Market Bottom Without Knowing Exactly When It Will happen?
Quite possibly of the most secure way average investors can exploit a single stock (or the stock market overall) lining is to involve dollar-cost averaging to lower their average price for each stock in their portfolio as these stocks go down in price.
[Dollar-cost averaging](/dollarcostaveraging) alludes to investing a similar dollar amount in the equivalent [securities](/security) at a standard interval paying little heed to variances in price. This means buying even more a stock when its price goes down and less of it when its price goes up. This strategy works best in the event that every one of the stocks in one's portfolio has strong [fundamentals](/fundamentals).
On the off chance that your goal is long-term growth, and your portfolio comprises of strong organizations, bear markets can be great opportunities to set yourself up for larger gains at whatever point the market chooses to turn itself around. Expanding the amount you dollar-cost average into your portfolio during downturns means you can scoop up additional shares at lower prices, so that as long as you hold until the next bull rally, your gains will surpass those of somebody who either sold their stocks or stopped investing out of fear when prices were falling.
