---
keywords: Personal Finance,Car Ownership,Auto Insurance,Health Insurance,Healthcare,Insuranceauto,Insurancehealthmedical,Keyword car Insurance,Life Stage Starting out,Migrated,Migrated Insurance,Migrated url Override,Topicpage
title: Medical Payments Coverage (MedPay)
description: Medical payments coverage (MedPay) is an addition to your collision protection policy for medical expenses coming about because of a vehicular accident to all individuals in your vehicle.
---

# Medical Payments Coverage (MedPay)
Medical payments coverage, or MedPay, is commonly a supplemental component of a standard collision protection policy that covers wounds that you or your passengers support in a fender bender. MedPay covers you regardless of who caused the crash. It likewise covers you on the off chance that you are harmed while riding in someone else's vehicle or on the other hand assuming that you are harmed by a motor vehicle while on foot, riding a bike or utilizing public transportation like a transport or train.
While looking for approaches to [lower your vehicle insurance premium](/investment funds), you might be enticed to eliminate medical payments coverage from your policy. All things considered, it may not be required in your state, but rather this often-misunderstood optional coverage may be useful to you when you want it the most. Enhancing existing health care coverage can be utilized.
## What is medical payments coverage?
More or less, medical payments coverage pays medical bills up to your coverage limit for yourself and any passengers riding in your vehicle in case of an accident, paying little heed to who is to blame. Your medical payments coverage moves with you (strolling, riding with a companion or on public transportation, in-state or out), as well likewise with your insured vehicles, paying little mind to who is driving. It conveys no deductible or copay.
You could think your real injury liability coverage will cover those expenses, however that coverage only steps in to cover wounds of gatherings in one more vehicle from a to blame accident. It doesn't cover you. While another driver's substantial injury liability coverage can help assuming you are harmed in an accident that one more insured driver caused, it might require months for their vehicle insurance company to pay your medical bills. Your medical coverage could pay, yet numerous medical services plans have high deductibles and copays that can stretch finances to the breaking point before the insurance settlement with the to blame driver is reached.
With MedPay, you can get immediate coverage to assist with paying any medical bills you or your passengers face after an accident. Plus, your medical payments coverage can safeguard you in the event that you get hit by a vehicle while you are on foot or a passenger in another vehicle, too.
### How does MedPay deal with accident protection?
The magnificence of MedPay is that it generally kicks in rapidly to pay your medical bills, health care coverage deductible and copays, up to the policy limits. It likewise covers other out-of-pocket costs that your wellbeing policy probably won't pay, including emergency vehicle fees, chiropractic, dental, prosthetics and, in a worst situation imaginable, memorial service expenses.
Dissimilar to liability coverage, MedPay policy limits don't allude to the total accessible coverage limit, yet rather to the amount accessible for each covered harmed individual. For instance, in the event that you have a $5,000 MedPay limit and you, your spouse and your two children are harmed in a car accident, every one of you could collect up to $5,000 in MedPay coverage for a total of $20,000. Nonetheless, your insurer won't pay similar bills under both your MedPay and liability coverage.
Medical payments coverage can be particularly important for drivers without medical services insurance. Nonetheless, MedPay ought not be utilized as a substitute for wellbeing coverage. You must carry auto liability coverage to purchase MedPay, and you must be harmed in an auto-related accident to utilize it.
### What does MedPay cover?
Assuming you are considering purchasing medical payments coverage, you are most likely wondering what protections you will get. Here are a portion of the coverages that MedPay gives:
- **Medical care:** Your MedPay can cover the cost of doctors and hospital expenses.
- **Medical services insurance deductibles and co-pays:** An immense benefit of medical payments coverage is that it can allow you to utilize your existing health care coverage with no out-of-pocket cost. MedPay could cover any co-pays for your doctor visits, plus your medical services insurance deductible, up to the policy limit.
- **Emergency medical care:** MedPay doesn't just step in that frame of mind after the accident. It can cover the cost of a rescue vehicle trip or emergency medical services, which are often expensive however critical assuming that you or any of your passengers are gravely harmed in the accident.
- **Specific diagnostics and treatments:** Medical payments coverage additionally covers services to assist you with deciding the degree of your wounds, similar to X-beams, or therapies required for you to mend, similar to medical procedure and therapy.

Medical payments coverage can go a long approach to financially help you or your passengers on the off chance that any of you gets injured in a fender bender.
## How is MedPay not quite the same as PIP
Assuming that you live in one of the 12 "no-shortcoming" states (Florida, Hawaii, Kansas, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania and Utah), the benefits of MedPay might sound natural. That is on the grounds that MedPay coverage is basically the same as personal injury protection (PIP) coverage. PIP coverage is generally mandatory in no-shortcoming states.
PIP coverage works much the same way to MedPay, paying for medical expenses after a car accident. Yet, PIP coverage is generally further coming to than MedPay, covering things like wage reimbursement on the off chance that you need to miss work in light of your wounds.
## What amount does medical payments coverage cost?
The premium for MedPay is generally very low and the benefits you might receive from just one claim might be worth the financial peace of brain.
"For instance, in the event that your health care coverage has a $1,000 deductible, a 20% copay and you have a $5,000 medical claim from an accident, with your health care coverage you would regularly pay $1,800 out of pocket," says Christy Moulton Perry, director of product management for Great Northwest Insurance Co. "Yet, with your MedPay, you would pay $0 out of pocket. That is a big difference."
Regardless of the compelling contentions for MedPay, almost one out of four State Farm drivers decides to decline it in states where it is offered, according to company representative Kip Diggs. The people who decide to renounce the coverage can either stand to self-insure for the cost of things covered under MedPay or will face the risk challenges conceivable out-of-pocket medical expenses in the event of an accident.
Be that as it may, Perry says a more intelligent move for some is help coverage from the standard levels of $1,000 to $5,000 up to $10,000 or more. The cost to move from $2,000 to $10,000 in MedPay on a Travelers auto policy is around $10 each year, according to agent Shawn Wainwright of Brown and Brown Insurance in Florida.
"Going up to $50,000 or even $100,000 normally costs, close to nothing and can be worth it," Perry says. "I know one case where the driver only had $5,000 (MedPay) and had a serious accident where she was disabled for quite a while. Eighteen months after her accident, her credit had been demolished in light of the fact that she had all of the hospital bills she couldn't pay. Even however the other vehicle insurance company recognized liability, she needed to trust that the whole claim will be closed before she could get that recovery."
## Often clarified some pressing issues
### What is the difference between real injury and medical payments?
The real injury liability portion of your collision protection only pays for medical bills on the off chance that you cause an accident. In that case, it steps in to cover the subsequent medical expenses for the other driver and their passengers. It doesn't cover your own medical bills, however, or those of your passengers. For that protection, you should take a gander at medical payments coverage (MedPay) or personal injury protection (PIP), contingent upon your state.
### Do you really want medical coverage on vehicle insurance?
It relies upon the state in which you live. In the event that you are a resident of one of the 12 no-shortcoming states, you will probably be legally required to carry PIP coverage. State laws fluctuate, and some might require MedPay. However, in different states, MedPay is optional. Be that as it may, the low cost of MedPay makes it an alluring addition to your existing collision protection policy.
### The amount MedPay coverage would it be advisable for me to have?
The amount of MedPay coverage you ought to consider carrying relies upon your specific necessities. Expanding your MedPay coverage limits as a rule comes with a low cost so it might check out to carry more than you think you really want. Conversing with a licensed insurance agent might assist you with deciding the legitimate amount of medical payments coverage for your specific necessities.
### Do I want MedPay on the off chance that I have medical coverage?
Carrying medical payments coverage even on the off chance that you have medical services insurance is often really smart, particularly assuming that you have a high health care coverage deductible or expensive copays. Your MedPay may be sufficient to cover your health care coverage deductible and copays so you can utilize your health care coverage with no out-of-pocket cost for yourself. Plus, MedPay reaches out to your passengers, so it is an effective method for safeguarding everyone in your vehicle. Conversing with a licensed agent about your specific situation may be useful to decide the right MedPay level for you.
## Highlights
- MedPay is supplemental to your health care coverage; which one is primary coverage relies on your health care coverage policy.
- Medical payments coverage (MedPay) is an add-on to collision protection that covers expenses connected with vehicular accidents.
- MedPay covers you and any passengers in your vehicle, any walkers you might harm, and you — on the off chance that you are riding as a passenger in one more vehicle or are harmed by a vehicle as a passerby, bicycle rider, or public transportation rider.
