---
keywords: Trading,Forex and Currencies Trading,Forex Trading Strategy and Education,Strategy and Education
title: MNT (Mongolian Tugrug)
description: MNT addresses the Mongolian tugrug (t\u00f6gr\u00f6g), the national currency of Mongolia beginning around 1925.
---

# MNT (Mongolian Tugrug)
## What Is the MNT (Mongolian Tugrug)?

MNT is the currency code for the **tugrug**, which additionally goes by t\u00f6gr\u00f6g or tugrik. It is the official currency of Mongolia, utilizing symbol is \u20ae, however aggregates are frequently written as "Tg" followed by the number, for example, Tg 590. \u20ae1 can be partitioned into 100 **m\u00f6ng\u00f6.**

The Bank of Mongolia issues and deals with the currency. As of September 2021, 1 U.S. dollar is equivalent to around 2,854 MNT.

## Grasping the Mongolian Tugrug

MNT appeared in December of 1925, after a resolution from the Bank of Mongolia. The Bank of Mongolia sporadically intercedes to keep up with stable exchange rates with foreign currencies, however generally follows a [floating exchange rate policy](/floatingexchangerate).

The tugrug supplanted the Mongolian dollar and started trading [at par](/parvalue) with the Soviet ruble. In 1928 the MNT turned into the main legal currency in the country. The tugurg is made out of 100 m\u00f6ng\u00f6, or 100th 100th of a tugrug, yet following quite a while of high inflation, m\u00f6ng\u00f6 are currently too low in value for commonsense use as currency. By and by MNT banknotes range from 1\u20ae to 20,000\u20ae and coins from 20\u20ae to 500\u20ae.

The tugrug has long been losing value in the [foreign exchange](/foreign-exchange) market. In December 2011, $1 was worth around 1,350 tugrug. In December 2020, that equivalent $1 was worth around 2,860 tugrug.

The tugrug is the official currency for shares listed on the Mongolian Stock Exchange (MSE), which caught consideration in the last part of the main decade of the 21st century for its exponential growth from 2006, when it was the littlest world stock market by capitalization to 2011 when it crested. Before long, the MSE tumbled when foreign investment fell and China decreased its imports from Mongolia.

## Mongolian Currency Restrictions

Inside Mongolia's borders, all prices must be named in \u20ae and paid in MNT. The Bank of Mongolia and the Financial Regulatory Commission have the authority to defer this restriction for specific transactions. Transactions that cross the Mongolian border are not limited by this rule and might be settled in foreign currency.

Voyagers might like to exchange foreign cash at banks or lodgings and pull out from their accounts through [ATMs](/atm), which offer competitive exchange rates. Mongolia is still generally a cash economy, and foreigners used to swiping their card for each transaction might have to become accustomed to keeping cash on them.

## Highlights
Except if there is an overriding [tax treaty](/taxtreaty), Mongolia applies a 20% [withholding tax](/withholdingtax) to all interest payments generated by foreign-held interest bearing dollar accounts.
