---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Municipal Bonds
title: Municipal Bond
description: What Is a Municipal Bond? Put just, a municipal bond (or &quot;muni&quot; for short) is basically a loan from an individual investor to a city, district, or state
---

# Municipal Bond
## What Is a Municipal Bond?
Put just, a municipal bond (or "muni" for short) is basically a loan from an individual investor to a city, region, or state government to assist with funding a specific infrastructure project or general, everyday operations.
In exchange for the impermanent utilization of the investor's money, the state or municipality furnishes them with periodic interest payments before eventually paying back the principal loan amount in full when the [bond](/bond) develops. Much of the time, municipal bond interest payments are exempt from federal and additionally state income taxes.
In financial terms, a municipal bond is a [fixed-income ](/fixed-income-investments)debt [security](/security) issued by a nearby or state government that pays interest to its holder at an annual rate known as its coupon. Municipal bonds — like corporate and treasury bonds — are tradable, so they can change hands quite a few times before they arrive at maturity, and their market value might change after some time, fluctuating above as well as below their face or "standard" value.
## What Are the 2 Main Types of Municipal Bonds?
Most municipal bonds fall into one of two classifications — general obligation and revenue — in view of how repayment funds are to be sourced.
### 1. General Obligation
General obligation bonds are purported in light of the fact that there isn't one specific source of funds from which investors are to be paid. All things considered, they are backed by the "full faith and credit" of the governmental entity that issued them, as that government has the option to tax its occupants to make interest and principal payments to bondholders.
### 2. Revenue
Revenue bonds, in contrast to G.O. bonds, are utilized to fund income-creating projects (like toll streets or parking meters) that can then be utilized to give the funds important to make interest payments and eventually pay back bondholders' principal.
## What Do Municipal Bonds Pay For?
At times, municipal bonds might be utilized essentially to fund-raise for the everyday operations and expenses of a governmental entity. More regularly, in any case, the funds generated from the sales of municipal bonds are utilized to pay for specific projects planned to benefit the occupants of the responsible state or municipality. A portion of the more normal project-specific objections for muni bond funds incorporate schools, streets, spans, libraries, parks, and other infrastructural public works.
## How Is Municipal Bond Income Taxed?
Interest income generated by holding municipal bonds isn't taxed federally. Much of the time, it isn't taxed at a state or nearby level either, however this fluctuates relying upon the idea of the bond and whether its buyer lives in the responsible city, province, or state. Interest income from treasury and [corporate bonds](/corporatebond), then again, is taxed federally.
Consequently, an investor might favor a municipal bond over a [treasury bond](/treasurybond) — even on the off chance that the treasury bond has a higher yield — on the grounds that the municipal bond winds up having a higher **after-tax** yield. Investors really should keep their tax brackets as a top priority and consider post-tax yields while contrasting municipal bonds and other debt securities.
For instance, suppose there was a 10-year, $10,000 municipal bond with a yield of 3.5%, and a 10-year, $10,000 treasury bond with a yield of 4%. An investor in the 20% federal income tax bracket would lean toward the municipal bond since it would earn them $350 each year, though the treasury bond would earn them just $320 ($400 minus $80 for taxes).
## How Safe/Risky Are Municipal Bonds?
As a rule, debt securities like bonds are fundamentally safer than equity securities (like stocks) and most [derivative securities](/derivative) (like options). In any case, how do munis compare to different types of bonds?
Since municipal bonds are backed either by income-producing projects (on account of revenue bonds) or income tax (on account of general obligation bonds), they have an extremely low default risk compared to corporate bonds. That being said, governmental substances at neighborhood, district, and state levels are not absolutely resistant from default risk. The City of Detroit, Michigan, for example, sought financial protection in 2013. Events like this are rare, yet they can happen.
Another thing to keep as a main priority — despite the fact that it doesn't straightforwardly deliver munis "risky," per say — is that individual municipal bonds are not even close as [liquid](/liquidity) as stocks or exchange-traded funds that incorporate bonds. This means that trading them isn't ordinarily essentially as simple as squeezing a button in a trading app. Buyers and merchants are less and farther between, so trades can take time, and bid-ask spreads can be bigger than anticipated.
## Instructions to Buy Municipal Bonds
The most straightforward method for buying numerous municipal bonds on the double while staying away from liquidity risk is to invest in a muni-centered ETF. [ETFs](/indexfund) trade on stock exchanges, so buying shares is simple, and beside expense ratios (a percentage of every investor's invested balance paid to the fund's management annually), there are no fees to worry about. Muni-centered [mutual funds](/mutualfund) likewise exist, however these may accompany extra fees, balance essentials, and other confounding factors.
Those interested in buying munis individually can do so through their bank, a brokerage, or even straightforwardly from a state, province, or neighborhood government.
## What Are the Advantages and Disadvantages of Municipal Bonds?
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Pros</th><th>Cons</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Regular interest payments</td><td>Low gain potential compared to equities</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Low default risk</td><td>Inflation risk</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Federal tax-free</td><td>Relatively low liquidity</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
## Municipal Bonds versus Treasury Bonds: What Are the Differences?
Municipal bonds and treasury bonds are both interest-paying debt securities issued by governments, yet while treasury bond interest income is subject to federal tax, municipal bond interest income isn't.

## Highlights
- General obligation (GO) munis give cash flows generated from taxes collected on a project.
- Municipal bonds ("munis") are debt securities issued by state and nearby governments.
- Interest paid on municipal bonds is many times tax free, making them an appealing investment option for individuals in high tax brackets.
- These can be considered loans that investors make to neighborhood governments, and are utilized to fund public works like parks, libraries, scaffolds and streets, and other infrastructure.
- Revenue munis return cash flows generated from the project itself.
