---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Analysis
title: Mutually Exclusive
description: Mutually exclusive is a statistical term portraying at least two occasions that can&#39;t happen at the same time.
---

# Mutually Exclusive
## What Is Mutually Exclusive?

Mutually exclusive is a [statistical](/insights) term depicting at least two occasions that can't occur all the while. It is ordinarily used to depict a situation where the occurrence of one outcome supplants the other. For instance, war and peace can't exist together simultaneously. This makes them mutually exclusive.

## Seeing Mutually Exclusive

Mutually exclusive occasions are occasions that can't both occur, however ought not be viewed as independent occasions. Independent occasions no affect the reasonability of different options. For an essential model, think about the rolling of dice. You can't roll both a five and a three at the same time on a single pass on. Be that as it may, you totally can roll a five and a three on two dice. Rolling a five and three at the same time means this outcome is mutually exclusive. Rolling a five on one and a three on different means they are not mutually exclusive outcomes.

### Opportunity Cost

When confronted with a decision between mutually exclusive options, a company must consider the [opportunity cost](/opportunitycost), which is what the company would be giving doing seek after every option. The concepts of opportunity cost and mutual selectiveness are intrinsically linked in light of the fact that each mutually exclusive option requires the sacrifice of anything profits might have been generated by picking the alternate option.

The [time value of money](/timevalueofmoney) (TVM) and different factors make mutually exclusive analysis a bit more muddled. For a more far reaching comparison, companies utilize the [net present value](/npv) (NPV) and [internal rate of return](/irr) (IRR) recipes to numerically determine which project is most beneficial while picking either at least two mutually exclusive options.

## Illustration of Mutually Exclusive

The concept of mutual eliteness is frequently applied in [capital budgeting](/capitalbudgeting). Companies might need to pick between various projects that will enhance the company upon completion. A portion of these projects are mutually exclusive.

For instance, expect a company has a budget of $50,000 for expansion projects. In the event that available Projects An and B each cost $40,000 and Project C costs just $10,000, then Projects An and B are mutually exclusive. On the off chance that the company seeks after A, it can't likewise stand to seek after B and vice versa. Project C might be viewed as independent. Notwithstanding which other project is sought after, the company can in any case stand to seek after C too. The acceptance of one or the other An or B doesn't impact the reasonability of C, and the acceptance of C doesn't impact the practicality of both of different projects.

Also, while seeing opportunity costs, consider the analysis of Projects An and B. Expect that Project A has a likely return of $100,000, while Project B will just return $80,000. Since An and B are mutually exclusive, the opportunity cost of picking B is equivalent to the profit of the most lucrative option (in this case, A) minus the profits generated by the chose option (B); that is, $100,000 - $80,000 = $20,000. Since option An is the most lucrative option, the opportunity cost of going for option An is $0.

## The Bottom Line

Things that are mutually exclusive are not able to at the same time happen. In business, this is commonly concerning the endeavor of projects or designating a budget. In the event that two things are not mutually exclusive, it means the presence and occurrence of one doesn't be guaranteed to mean the other can't coincide.

## Features
- Occasions are viewed as mutually exclusive when they can't occur simultaneously.
- In the event that considering mutually exclusive options, a company must gauge the opportunity cost, or what it would be surrendering by selecting every option.
- The concept frequently comes up in the business world in the assessment of budgeting and dealmaking.
- Not mutually exclusive means that two examples or outcomes can happen all the while, and one outcome doesn't limit the other from being conceivable.
- The time value of money (TVM) is in many cases thought about while choosing two mutually exclusive decisions.
## FAQ
### What Does Mutually Exclusive Mean in Finance?
Ordinarily, this includes budgeting and payments. Assuming that a company has $180 million to spend, it can't spend that $180 million the two by reinvesting in the business and offering bonuses to upper management. In this case, those two options are mutually exclusive. On the off chance that the company can hold licensing in a single country, that means they shouldn't endeavor to be licensed in two separate countries as they are mutually exclusive.
### What's the significance here If Projects Are Mutually Exclusive?
In business, managers and directors frequently need to plan resource allocation. Assuming a company is building a bridge and a skyscraper, and the two projects require a very particular piece of equipment and just a single exists in the world, it would mean that these projects are mutually exclusive, as that piece of equipment can't be utilized by the two projects simultaneously. This thought can be extended to think about specific experts, software systems (which can't run both Mac and Windows), and allocated budgets.
### What Is the Difference Between Independent and Mutually Exclusive?
To illustrate the difference between what is independent and what is mutually exclusive, consider the war and peace model from prior. There could be war in France and peace in Italy. These are two independent nations and accordingly every one could be in its own state of peace. Nonetheless, there can't be war in France and peace in France. Since they can't coincide, that makes them mutually exclusive.
