---
keywords: Investing,Alternative Investments,Real Estate Investing
title: Net Interest Margin Securities (NIMS)
description: A net interest margin security (NIMS) is a security that permits holders to access excess cash flows from securitized mortgage loan pools.
---

# Net Interest Margin Securities (NIMS)
## What Does Net Interest Margin Securities Mean?

A net interest margin security (NIMS) is a real estate security that permits holders to receive excess cash flows from securitized mortgage loan pools. In a commonplace NIMS exchange, excess cash flow from the securitized mortgage loan pool is moved into a trust account. Investors in NIMS subsequently receive interest payments from this trust account.

## Grasping Net Interest Margin Securities (NIMS)

Net interest margin securities are a particular sort of inferior [mortgage-backed securities](/mbs) (MBS). These MBSs are resource backed securities that package mortgages into a product investors can buy. NIMS exist in light of the fact that various securitized mortgage pools contain subprime mortgages with higher interest rates than the rates regularly offered to mortgage-backed security (MBS) investors. The more huge the difference in these interest rates are, the higher the excess cash flow generated by the MBS is, and in this manner, the higher the value of the NIMS will be.

A portion of the excess funds will go to senior creditors in payment for losses and overhead, and the balance will go to investors. Additionally, it is common practice for NIMS investors to receive senior claims on the receipts of any prepayment punishments required on the underlying mortgages.

In the event that there is a critical increase in the [default rate](/defaultrate) of the mortgages held in the MBS, there will be a subsequent diminishing in excess cash flows. The reduction in cash flow will lead to a quick decline in the profitability of the value of a net interest margin security (NIMS).

NIMS securities are most frequently purchased through [private placement](/privateplacement) transactions, or by investors who have practical experience in mortgages. Much of the time, the firm that originated the mortgage loans and issued the MBS is the very firm that will invest in the NIMS. Mortgage-backed security guarantors are along these lines regularly found securitizing their residual interest.

## The History of Net Interest Margin Securities

NIMS originally opened up on the open market during the 1990s. Initially, the securities performed inadequately, paying at a more slow rate than what was anticipated. This lackluster showing was generally owing to ineffectively structured bargains. Subsequent transactions profited from huge structural overhauls in the securities.

As a sort of mortgage-backed security, NIMS played a part in the [mortgage crisis](/subprime-implosion) of 2007-2009. The complexity inherent in the securitization of mortgages drove numerous investors to minimize the risk. When the housing market started to decline, the value of NIMS and other mortgage-backed securities fell pointedly. As mortgage-related loss stacked up and developed more huge, numerous securitized mortgage products started to lose liquidity. The net effect of the sudden decline in NIMS and other mortgage-backed securities was to add to the fear of investors, which eventually prompted a more broad financial crisis.
