---
keywords: Investing,Fundamental Analysis,Sectors and Industries Analysis,Sectors and Industries
title: Peer Perform
description: Peer perform is an investment rating that sell-side analysts use when a given security furnishes returns reliable with those of different companies in its sector.
---

# Peer Perform
## What Is Peer Perform?

Peer perform is an investment rating that sell-side analysts use when a given security gives returns predictable those of different companies in its sector. A peer perform is a neutral evaluation; it predicts a security will move in accordance with comparative companies.

Just a minority of sell-side research operations currently utilize the peer perform rating, rather than utilizing the equivalents — [hold](/hold), [market perform](/marketperform), or neutral — to convey generally a similar sentiment. The peer perform rating generally likens to a "hold" rating since investors don't anticipate that the security should outperform comparable assets.

## Understanding Peer Perform

The peer perform rating essentially means that analysts don't anticipate that the security should either outperform or underperform their peers. Given that sell-side research operations receive compensation in view of the dollar value of trading generated by their reports, there are not many economic incentives for firms to issue peer perform — or comparable — ratings. Of course, the majority of ratings are considered "[buy](/buy)"; a smaller percentage of ratings are either peer perform or [hold](/buyandhold).

While peer perform and comparative ratings at times are for industries and sectors, most apply to individual equities.

Bear Stearns was maybe the most popular sell-side research operation to utilize the peer perform rating throughout the long term. During the 2008 global financial crisis, JPMorgan Chase purchased its assets. Starting around 2021, boutique research firm Wolfe Research, which centers around the transportation, utilities, healthcare services, energy, and consumer discretionary sectors, actually utilizes peer perform. Wolfe utilizes a relative rating system, including terms, for example, [outperform](/outperform), peer perform, and [underperfrm](/underperform).

A few investors erroneously mistake ratings for [price targets](/pricetarget), which give an estimate of where analysts anticipate that a stock should exchange the future, either in a most ideal situation or throughout a set time span. Many price targets set expectations 12 months into what's in store. They will quite often be founded on [fundamental research](/fundamentalanalysis), and don't consider [market technicals](/technicalanalysis).

Note that it's feasible for a stock to carry a peer perform rating and a price target either above or below its current trading price.

## Illustration of Peer Perform

For instance, assume that the analysts at a boutique firm covering the vehicle parts sector think that AutoZone enjoys not many convincing competitive benefits in the approaching 12 to 18 months versus its peers, like O'Reilly Auto Parts and Advance Auto Parts.

These analysts note that AutoZone's operating profit margins are a little lower than the other two firms, largely due to the cost of new store openings, yet exclusively by a small single-digit percentage. The analysts expect the margin trend to remain generally something similar. They anticipate AutoZone's revenue growth, in comparison, to be a portion not exactly that of its opponents. The greatest difference among the retailers is the analysts think O'Reilly in the end plans a large share buyback that could support its stock price, in contrast to the next two firms.

In their overall analysis, the analysts rate both AutoZone and Advance Auto as peer perform however place a buy rating on O'Reilly.

## Features
- Peer perform is a sell-side analysts' rating that shows a neutral outlook for the shares of a company.
- Peer perform is utilized principally by analysts that work in industry group or sector proposals, including Wolfe Research and the now-dead Bear Stearns.
- Not frequently utilized, peer perform is generally equivalent to the "market perform," "neutral," or "hold" suggestions that are issued by equity analysts.
