---
keywords: Crypto
title: Plasma
description: Plasma. An Ethereum off-chain scaling solution which might permit Etherum to significantly increase the transactions each subsequent capablities.
---

# Plasma
In a couple of words, Plasma is planned as a scaling solution technique for the Ethereum network. The fundamental proposal of Plasma is to function as a structure of side chains that will communicate as sparingly as conceivable with the Ethereum blockchain (the primary chain). The Plasma structure is being intended to function as a [blockchain](/blockchain) tree, progressively organized so that many "child chains" are made on top of the principal chain.
The Plasma system is worked using smart contracts and [Merkle Trees](/merkle-tree) and enables the creation of an unlimited number of side chains - which are, basically, more modest duplicates of the Ethereum blockchain.
In effect, the child chains are intended to run a tweaked smart contract, which makes it workable for companies to utilize the Plasma structure as per their individual necessities. In this way, unique Plasma smart contracts can be made for various use cases. By utilizing the security given by the fundamental chain, Plasma can send a huge number of various child chains that would be working in a foreordained manner, towards specific objectives (not really connected with those of the primary chain). Hence, the fundamental Ethereum blockchain would be more averse to get clogged.
In short, Plasma is a [off-the-fundamental chain](/off-chain) solution that looks to radically increase the productivity of the Ethereum network (or some other blockchain) by taking the bulk of the processing duties off of the primary chain and reallocating it onto a series of more modest, functional chains.
Plasma was proposed by Vitalik Buterin and Joseph Poon, in August 2017 as a scaling solution for Ethereum, yet the concept might be adjusted and carried out into other blockchains too. Poon was additionally one of the idealizers of the Lightning Network proposal, which makes sense of the likenesses Plasma and LN have as scaling solutions (Plasma for Ethereum and Lightning Network for Bitcoin). In any case, keep at the top of the priority list that they have various methodologies and systems.
The Ethereum Plasma is an open-source project and the public vault can be found on their GitHub. For more nitty gritty and technical data, you may likewise allude to the official Plasma whitepaper. Albeit the project is still in the beginning phases of development, the thought is to be sure exceptionally fascinating. On the off chance that effectively executed, Plasma can radically work on the proficiency of the Ethereum network. What's more, it might likewise be a helpful starting point for other blockchain networks that might require a scaling solution going ahead.
Note, nonetheless, that Plasma alone isn't a project, a system for building scalable applications can be executed in various ways by various research gatherings or companies.
