---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Ratios
title: Price-to-Research Ratio – PRR
description: The price-to-research ratio measures the relationship between a company&#39;s market capitalization and its research and development expenses. The price-to-research ratio is calculated by separating a company&#39;s market value by its last 12 months of expenditures on research and development.
---

# Price-to-Research Ratio - PRR
## What Is the Price-to-Research Ratio - PRR?

The price-to-research ratio (PRR) measures the relationship between a company's [market capitalization](/marketcapitalization) and its [research and development](/randd) (R&D) expenditures. The price-to-research ratio is calculated by partitioning a company's market value by its last 12 months of expenditures on research and development. A comparable concept is return on research capital.

Market value is found by duplicating the total number of shares outstanding by the current stock prices. The definition of research and development expenditures might contrast from one industry to another, however companies in a similar industry generally follow comparative definitions of [R&D expense](/research-and-development-expenses).

Research and development expenses might incorporate expenses connected with so much things as pure research, technology licensing, the purchase of [proprietary technology](/proprietarytechnology) from outsiders or the cost of helping innovations through regulatory obstacles. Research and development expenses are generally uncovered and made sense of in the [income statement](/incomestatement) or the applicable footnotes of distributed [accounting statements](/financialaccounting).

## The Formula for PRR Is
<span class="katex"><span class="katex-mathml"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><semantics><mtable rowspacing="0.24999999999999992em" columnalign="right left" columnspacing="0em"><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>PRR</mtext><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mtext>Market Capitalization</mtext><mtext>Research &amp; Development Expenditure</mtext></mfrac></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr></mtable><annotation encoding="application/x-tex">\begin{aligned} &amp;\text{PRR}=\frac{\text{Market Capitalization}}{\text{Research \&amp; Development Expenditure}}\\ \end{aligned}</annotation></semantics></math></span><span class="katex-html" aria-hidden="true"><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:2.5518799999999997em;vertical-align:-1.02594em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mtable"><span class="col-align-r"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.5259399999999996em;"><span style="top:-3.5259399999999994em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.02594em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="col-align-l"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.5259399999999996em;"><span style="top:-3.5259399999999994em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">PRR</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mopen nulldelimiter"></span><span class="mfrac"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.3714399999999998em;"><span style="top:-2.314em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Research &amp; Development Expenditure</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.23em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="frac-line" style="border-bottom-width:0.04em;"></span></span><span style="top:-3.677em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Market Capitalization</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.8804400000000001em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mclose nulldelimiter"></span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.02594em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span>
## What Does PRR Tell You?

Financial master/essayist Kenneth Fisher developed the price-to-research ratio to measure and compare companies' relative R&D expenditure. Fisher recommends buying companies with PRRs somewhere in the range of 5 and 10 and staying away from companies with PRRs greater than 15. By searching for low PRRs, investors ought to have the option to spot companies that are diverting current profits into R&D, accordingly better guaranteeing long-term future returns.

Price-to-research ratio (PRR) is a comparison of how much money a firm spends on research and development corresponding to its market capitalization. The ratio is most important in research-based organizations, for example, drug companies, software companies, hardware companies and consumer products companies. In these research-escalated industries, investment in logical and technical innovation is critical for progress and long-term growth and can be an important indicator of the company's ability to produce profits from now on.

In comparison, across peers, a lower price-to-research ratio might thought about bid, as it might show that the company is vigorously invested research and development, and is maybe bound to prevail with regards to creating future profitability. A relatively higher ratio might demonstrate the inverse, that the company isn't investing sufficient in future achievement. Be that as it may, the overlooked details are the main problem, and the lower price-to-research ratio firm may just have a lower market capitalization, and not really a better investment in R&D.

Likewise, a relatively favorable price-to-research ratio doesn't guarantee the progress of future product innovations, nor does a large amount of R&D spending guarantee future profits. The main thing is the way effectively the company is utilizing its R&D dollars. Moreover, the suitable level of R&D spending differs by industry and relies upon the company's development stage. Likewise with all [ratio analysis](/ratioanalysis), the price-to-research ratio ought to be seen as one piece of a large mosaic of data used to illuminate an investment assessment.

## The Difference Between PRR and Price-to-Growth Flow Model

Technology investment master Michael Murphy offers the [price/growth flow model](/pricegrowthflow). Price/growth flow endeavors to recognize companies that are delivering strong current earnings while at the same time investing huge load of cash into R&D. To work out the growth flow, essentially take the R&D of the last 12 months and separation it by the [shares outstanding](/outstandingshares) to get R&D per share. Add this to the company's [EPS](/eps) and partition by the share price.

The idea is that low earnings can be compensated with greater R&D spending and vice versa. In the event that a company chooses to spend on today and neglect the future, current earnings per share might surpass R&D spending. The two cases bring about a high perusing of the ratio, meaning strong earnings per share or R&D spending. That way investors can assess potential earnings growth now and later on.

## Limitations of the Price-to-Research Ratio (PRR)

Tragically, while the PRR and Murphy models both work really hard of assisting investors with recognizing companies that are committed to R&D, neither demonstrates whether R&D spending makes the ideal difference (i.e., the fruitful creation of profitable products over the long haul).

As such, PRR doesn't measure how effectively management apportions [capital](/capital). A large R&D bill, for example, doesn't guarantee new product dispatches or market executions will create profits in ongoing quarters. While assessing R&D, investors ought to determine how much is invested as well as how well the R&D investment is working for the company.

Companies frequently refer to [patent](/patent) output as an unmistakable R&D achievement measure. The contention goes that the more patents documented, the more productive the R&D department. Be that as it may, in reality, the ratio of patents per R&D dollar will in general address the activity of a company's legal counselors and administrators more than its engineers and product designers. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that a patent will at any point transform into a marketable product.

## Highlights
- The price-to-research ratio is a measure of looking at companies' R&D expenditures.
- PRR doesn't, in any case, measure how effectively R&D expenses convert into viable products or sales growth.
- A PRR ratio between 5x-10x is viewed as great, while a level above 15x ought to be stayed away from.
