---
keywords: Investing,Fundamental Analysis,Sectors and Industries Analysis,Sectors and Industries
title: PV10
description: PV10 is an estimated value of an energy company&#39;s proven oil and gas reserves and is utilized by analysts to forecast the capability of the company&#39;s stock.
---

# PV10
## What Is PV10?

PV10 is a calculation of the current value of estimated future oil and gas [revenues](/revenue), net of forecasted direct expenses, and discounted at an annual rate of 10%. The subsequent figure is utilized in the energy industry to estimate the value of a company's proven oil and gas [reserves](/oil-reserves).

## Grasping PV10

By and large, it is challenging to place a value on oil and gas reserves, and that makes it hard to estimate an oil company's future [earnings](/earnings). The PV10 metric is helpful in determining an estimated [value](/value) in an industry that is ostensibly one of the most hard for investors to comprehend and evaluate accurately.

[Analysts](/investigator) depend on supply engineers for the data used to compute PV10. The engineer makes a reserve report for existing wells and [proven](/proven-reserves) yet undeveloped well areas. This report considers each well's current production rate, production costs, expenses for reserve development, and its forecast decline rate. Future gross revenues are estimated by utilizing prevailing energy prices or applying a suitable heightening rate.

Just direct expenses are included in the report. Indirect expenses that are not factored in may incorporate [debt service](/debtservice), [depletion](/depletion), amortization, and administrative overhead, as well as expenses not connected with property.

The PV10 calculation is widely utilized by investors and market analysts, yet it's anything but a financial measurement calculated as per [generally accepted accounting principles](/gaap) (GAAP). That is on the grounds that PV10 doesn't factor in the effect [income taxes](/incometax) will have on future earnings.

## PV10 and Enterprise Value (EV)

The PV10 calculation is in many cases reported as the EV/PV10 calculation. [Enterprise value](/enterprisevalue) (EV) is a measure of the market value of a company, comprehensive of its equity and debt. The total is calculated by adding together a company's [market capitalization](/marketcapitalization), preferred stock, and debt, and afterward deducting endlessly cash equivalents.

Basically, EV can be considered a theoretical [takeover](/takeover) price. In the event that the company was purchased, the [acquiring company](/acquirer) would expect the company's debt and holds its cash.

On the off chance that a company's PV10 value is higher than its EV, the stock is apparently priced below the value it will generate after some time. That makes the company's stock interesting to investors.

> On the off chance that a company's PV10 value is higher than its enterprise value (EV), investors will consider its stock to be a long-term buying opportunity.
>
## Illustration of PV10 Calculation

Consider the speculative case of a major international oil company. The company's EV is $449 billion and it has 25 billion oil-identical barrels of guaranteed reserves.

All the company hopes to replace its yearly production with new reserves. That means this figure ought to stay consistent from one year to another.

In view of these figures, the oil company's EV/reserve is $17.80, which shows that its value is around 18 times its proven barrels of oil reserves. The company's PV10 would accordingly be $176 billion.

## Features
- It depends on engineers' reports of the estimated costs and revenues that each oil deposit or reserve might create.
- PV10 is widely involved by stock analysts and investors as a measure of an energy company's market value.
- PV10 is a method of assessing an energy company's potential future earnings in light of its proven reserves of oil and gas, utilizing a 10% discount rate.
