---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Municipal Bonds
title: Residual Interest Bond (RIB)
description: A residual interest bond is a municipal bond that has been broken into two parts: a residual inverse floating-rate bond and a primary direct floating-rate bond.
---

# Residual Interest Bond (RIB)
## What Is a Residual Interest Bond (RIB)?

Residual interest bonds (RIBs) are securities made when income from a [municipal bond](/municipalbond) is separated into two segments. The two segments made are a residual [inverse floating-rate bond](/inversefloater) and a primary direct [floating-rate bond](/floater).

## Understanding Residual Interest Bonds

A residual interest bond (RIB) is a municipal bond that has been split into two segments. The main segment of a RIB is a residual inverse floating-rate bond and the subsequent segment is a primary direct floating-rate bond.

The subsequent inverse piece will have a reverse relationship to a reference interest rate, like the [London Interbank Offered Rate](/libor) (LIBOR). The income from the municipal bond is then used to pay the coupon on the direct floater, and any excess revenue will go toward the residual interest bond.

## Purpose of Residual Interest Bonds

RIBs empower municipal bond funds to guarantee higher current [yields](/yield) to their purchasers. As rates on municipal bonds rise, holders of RIBs will possess bonds that pay a lower coupon, or yield. This dropping yield radically decreases the price of the bond on the [secondary market](/secondarymarket).

Purchasers of residual-interest bonds get a higher interest rate than a conventional municipal bond would give. Be that as it may, the risk of these securities is raised. An investor who holds an inverse floater keeps up with the underlying bond's all's downside risk.

The goal of RIBS is to upgrade yield and to help individual portfolio managers in controlling the maturity of their overall portfolio. Due to their high level of refinement and potential [volatility](/volatility), most RIBs are owned by [financial institutions](/financialinstitution) rather than by [retail investors](/retailinvestor).

## Municipal Bonds and Residual Interest Bonds

A municipal bond is a type of [debt security](/debtsecurity) commonly utilized by government elements like states or municipalities for of financing large expenses.

For example, Springtown needs to raise $5 million so the town can perform truly necessary updates to its primary school. The town releases $5 million worth of municipal bonds that investors can purchase, to be paid back to the investors at a foreordained interest rate. Municipal bond income is generally exempt from federal taxes, and once in a while state taxes too.

### Types of Municipal Bonds

There are two primary types of municipal bonds: general obligation bonds and revenues bonds. With a [general obligation (GO) bond](/generalobligationbond), the bond is backed by the responsible entity. A [revenue bond](/revenuebond) utilizes revenue from the project itself to back the bond. For example, on the off chance that a state releases bonds to fund the construction of another cost highway, the money collected from costs would assist with paying back the bond.

An overall obligation bond is completely backed by the responsible entity and the payments produced using its normal government capabilities, like the assortment of taxes. A revenue bond, then again, just makes payments from the income generated by a specific project. In the event that the project falls flat or on the other hand on the off chance that the income isn't critical, payments on the bond can be affected. It is therefore that revenue bonds carry a higher risk yet in addition pay a higher yield.

> A residual interest bond can be either an overall obligation bond or a revenue bond, as this doesn't make any difference to the investor with the exception of the different risk profiles of the two, which they would pick relying upon their [risk tolerance](/risktolerance).
>

## Highlights
- A residual interest bond is a type of inverse floating-rate bond made by partitioning the income from a municipal bond into two portions.
- The goal of RIBS is to improve yield and help portfolio managers in controlling the maturity of their overall portfolio.
- Due to their high level of complexity and expected volatility, most RIBs are owned by financial institutions rather than individual investors.
- Residual interest bonds empower municipal bond funds to guarantee higher current yields to their purchasers.
- These segments are an inverse floating-rate bond and a primary direct floating-rate bond.
## FAQ
### Why Are Bonds Stripped?
[Stripping](/strip) a bond disintegrates a security into its pieces. For instance, a bond can be stripped so that its interest (coupon) payments become one piece while the repayment of the principal turns into a [zero-coupon bond](/zero-couponbond). This is done on the grounds that a few investors might need or require just a single part without the other.
### What Is Residual Interest?
In fixed income investing, residual interest alludes to income that remaining parts after primary obligations (like more senior tranches) are paid off. In a strip bond, the zero-coupon bond that results is separated from the interest payments is otherwise called the residual.
### What Are the Main Types of Bonds?
Bonds are fixed-income securities that address debt that must be repaid. These can come in numerous assortments, with probably the most common being issued by sovereign governments, corporations, and municipalities. These bonds are issued at different maturities with either fixed or variable interest rates. They can likewise be structured with [embedded options](/embeddedoption) making them [callable](/callablebond), putable, or [convertible](/convertiblebond).Bonds may likewise be stripped so an investor just takes the coupon or principal portion of the debt. What's more, bonds can be collateralized (secured by assets) or unsecured, senior or junior, or repackaged into tranches. Without a doubt, the universe of bond types is large and differed.
### Are Stripped Bonds Safe?
Similarly as with any bond, the riskiness of a stripped bond's parts will rely upon the credit quality of the issuer. A stripped government bond (like [Treasury STRIPS](/treasurystrips)), for instance, will be the safest of every single stripped bond.
