---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Municipal Bonds
title: Revenue Bond
description: A revenue bond is a municipal bond supported by the revenue from a specific project, for example, a toll bridge, thruway, or neighborhood arena.
---

# Revenue Bond
## What Is a Revenue Bond?

A revenue bond is a category of [municipal bond](/municipalbond) supported by the revenue from a specific project, for example, a toll bridge, interstate, or neighborhood arena. Revenue bonds that finance income-delivering projects are in this way secured by a predetermined revenue source. Regularly, revenue bonds can be issued by any government agency or fund that is managed in the way of a business, for example, elements having both [operating revenues](/operating-revenue) and expenses.

Revenue bonds, which are likewise called municipal revenue bonds, vary from [general obligation bonds](/generalobligationbond) (GO bonds) that can be repaid through an assortment of tax sources.

## Understanding Revenue Bonds

A revenue bond repays creditors from income generated by the project that the bond itself is funding, like a toll road or bridge. While a revenue bond is backed by a specific revenue stream, holders of GO bonds are depending on the full faith and credit of the responsible municipality. Regularly, since holders of revenue bonds can depend on the specific project's income, it has a higher risk than GO bonds and pays a higher rate of interest.

Broadly, several types of revenue bonds are usually issued by state and nearby governments:

- A [airport revenue bond](/airport-revenue-bond) is a type of municipal bond issued by a municipality or airport authority that utilizes the revenues of the airport facility to back the bond. At times, the airport revenue bond is a type of [public-purpose](/public-reason bonds) bond. Anyway if over 10% of the benefit from the airport will go to the private sector, the bond will be a private bond.
- A [toll revenue bond](/tollrevenuebond) is a type of municipal security used to build a public project like a bridge, passage, or interstate. Revenues from tolls paid by users of the public project pay the principal and interest payments on the bond.
- [Utility revenue bonds](/utility-revenue-bond) (essential services bonds) are municipal debt securities that are intended to finance public utility projects. The utility is required to repay bondholders straightforwardly from project revenues instead of a general tax fund.
- A [hospital revenue bond](/hospital-revenue-bond) is a type of municipal bond planned to support the construction of new hospitals, nursing homes, or related facilities. The bonds can likewise be utilized to purchase new equipment for these facilities or to finance redesigns for existing hospitals. The revenue made by the hospitals is then used to repay bondholders.
- [Mortgage revenue bonds](/mortgage-revenue-bond) (MRBs) are bonds issued by nearby or state Housing Finance Agencies (HFAs). Otherwise called [housing bonds](/housingbonds), the HFA will issue without tax bonds to investors. Funding from the sale of these bonds is then used to finance affordable mortgages for low-and middle-income individuals.
- [Industrial revenue bonds](/idrb) (IRBs) are municipal debt securities issued by a government agency for the benefit of a private sector company and expected to build or obtain processing plants or other heavy equipment and instruments.

## Structure of Revenue Bonds

Ordinarily, revenue bonds mature in 20 to 30 years and can be issued in different additions, including $1,000 and $5,000. The value of the bond is called the bond's [face value](/facevalue), which is the amount paid to the investor or bondholder at the bond's [maturity](/maturitydate). Some revenue bonds have staggered maturity dates and don't mature simultaneously. These are known as [serial bonds](/serialbond).

Investors can purchase a revenue bond by paying the face value amount of the bond upfront and, in return, are paid interest over the life of the bond. At the bond's maturity, the face value amount is returned to the investor gave there was adequate revenue from the project to pay back the bond. Assuming there is lacking revenue generated from the project, investors are at risk of losing their total investment.

For instance, on the off chance that a revenue bond is issued to build another toll road, the tolls that are collected from drivers who drive on the road would be utilized to pay off the bond, after the building expenses have been paid. A primary justification for utilizing revenue bonds is that they permit the municipality to try not to arrive at enacted debt limits. An agency that is run exclusively on tax dollars, like a public school, can't issue revenue bonds, since these elements would not be able to pay off the bond utilizing revenues from the specific project.

## Genuine Examples

St. Louis, Missouri, participates in tax-exempt revenue bond financing. Ordinary projects funded this way are multi-family [housing](/housing-authority-bonds), in which at least 20% of the units are set to the side for families meeting income rules; publicly owned facilities; pollution control facilities; and different fixed assets like land/buildings. The maturity of the majority of the issues is 20 to 30 years, and interest earned is generally tax-exempt from federal and most state income taxes. This likewise permits the issuer to pay a lower interest rate.

New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) chose to offer Green Bonds in February 2016. The MTA is utilizing the $500 million of proceeds to pay for arranged infrastructure renewal projects, remembering updates for its railroads. The bonds, issued under MTA's Transportation Revenue Bond, are backed by the agency's operating revenue and sponsorships received from New York State.

## Features
- Revenue bonds are a class of municipal bonds issued to fund public projects which then, at that point, repay investors from the income made by that project.
- For example, a toll road or utility can be financed with municipal bonds with creditors' interest and principal repaid from the tolls or fees collected.
- Revenue bonds, in contrast to GO bonds, are project-specific and are not funded by taxpayers.
