---
keywords: Trading,Stock Trading,Stock Trading Strategy and Education
title: Reverse/Forward Stock Split
description: What Is a Stock Split and How Does It Work? A stock split is an action taken by a company&#39;s leadership to increase the total number of shares of its stock in
---

# Reverse/Forward Stock Split
## What Is a Stock Split and How Does It Work?
A stock split is an action taken by a company's leadership to increase the total number of shares of its stock in circulation and decline the price per share proportionately.
For example, in a 2-for-1 stock split, 100 shares of a stock worth $50 per share would quickly become 200 shares of stock worth $25 per share. An investor who was holding 5 shares at $50 each for a total of $250 worth of stock would unexpectedly be holding 10 shares at $25 dollars each, still with a total value of $250. Not all splits are 2-for-1, however; 3-for-1, 5-for-1, and 10-for-1 splits are additionally common.
While stock splits change the number of outstanding shares and the price per share, they don't change the [market capitalization](/capitalization) of a company (i.e., the total value of all [outstanding shares](/outstandingshares), or the company's current market value). In other words, stock splits don't influence the value of an investor's holdings; they essentially increase the number of shares held and decline the value of each share proportionately.

## For what reason Do Companies Perform Stock Splits?
A company might decide to split its stock for a number of reasons. Most commonly, splits are performed to increase [liquidity](/liquidity) by expanding the number of shares outstanding while at the same time making a company's stock more open to average investors by bringing down share price.
These days, the trading of fractional shares is common on account of fresher trading platforms like Robinhood and SoFi, however this was not generally the situation. By and large, investors needed to buy whole shares of stock to invest. For institutional investors with heaps of trading capital, buying shares that cost great many dollars was reasonable, yet for retail investors (i.e., normal, working-regular workers, individual investors), a high share price could put a company's stock far off.
These days, retail investors don't have to buy whole shares to invest in a company (Robinhood permits users to buy into a company's stock with just $1), so stock splits are presently not rigorously important to make a stock more open. Nevertheless, lower share prices really do in any case appear to make buying whole shares of stock all the more mentally attractive to the average investor, and companies truly do keep on executing splits.
As well as making a stock more appealing by bringing down the price per share, a split likewise will in general abbreviate the bid-ask spread (the difference between a merchant's most reduced price for a share and a buyer's highest price) by expanding the number of shares in circulation.
## Stock Split Example: Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL)
In late August of 2020, Apple executed a 4-for-1 stock split to increase its outstanding shares fourfold while decreasing share price by a similar factor. This split changed Apple's stock price from about $500 per share to about $125 and brought its number of shares outstanding from around 12.6 billion to around 50.4 billion. This means that an investor who was holding 10 $500 shares pre-split would have held 40 $125 shares post-split.
## How Do Splits Affect Stocks in the Long Term?
While stock splits don't change a company's market value when they happen, they can stir up public interest, which can decidedly affect share price in the immediate aftermath of the split's announcement. This effect might be fleeting, however overall, more than once splitting stock to bring down share price can keep investors bullish. Assuming that a company splits its stock more than once to stay affordable, investors will quite often see it as a solid and quickly developing firm that is worth consideration.
That being said, only one out of every odd split brings about gains or causes a buzz among investors. Each situation is unique, and fundamentally, splits don't influence a company's value except if the market concludes that they do.
## What Is a Reverse Stock Split and How Does It Work?
A reverse stock split is basically something contrary to a standard, or "forward" stock split. Rather than expanding the number of shares in circulation and decreasing share price, a reverse split lessens the number of outstanding shares and increases share price likewise.
In a 1-for-2 reverse split, for example, 100 shares with a price of $50 per share would become 50 shares worth $100 per share. Like a forward stock split, a reverse stock split doesn't impact a company's market capitalization — it essentially increases share price while decreasing the number of shares outstanding.
## For what reason Do Companies Perform Reverse Stock Splits?
All in all, in the event that forward splits decline share price and increase liquidity — the two of which are beneficial things — how could a company need to perform a **reverse** split? Would expanding share price scare away more modest investors? Could lessening the total number of shares in circulation diminish trading volume and liquidity? Not really.
The primary explanation companies execute reverse splits is to meet the requirements to be listed on a major stock exchange like the [NASDAQ](/nasdaq-stock-exchange) or the [NYSE](/nyse). To be listed on the NASDAQ, a stock must beginning at $5 or more per share, and to stay on the NASDAQ, a stock must keep a price of something like $1 per share. Likewise, a stock must stay at or above $1 to trade on the NYSE. In the event that a stock's price stays below its exchange's base for 30 days, it risks being delisted.
On the off chance that a company can't meet the requirements to get listed on one of the major exchanges, or on the other hand assuming it becomes delisted, it must trade on the over-the-counter market, where liquidity is lower, bid-ask spreads are higher, trades take more time, and mainstream investor interest can be more diligently to stop by.
Consequently, raising the price of a stock with a reverse split to get listed (or remain listed) on one of the major exchanges can really support (or keep up with) liquidity and investor interest. Companies that are traded on NASDAQ or the NYSE appreciate definitely more visibility than those that trade over the counter, and their stocks are far simpler for average investors to trade.
## Reverse Stock Split Example: Citigroup (NYSE: C)
In May of 2011, financial services company Citigroup established a 1-for-10 reverse split, raising share price from around $4 to around $40 and diminishing outstanding shares from around 29 billion to around 2.9 billion. This reverse split was executed in tandem with a reestablished dividend after the firm's most memorable beneficial year since the 2008 financial crisis and subsequent [recession](/recession) with an end goal to "decrease volatility while broadening the base of expected investors," as per then-CEO Vikram Pandit.
## How Do Reverse Stock Splits Affect Stocks in the Long Term?
Reverse stock splits can forecast inconvenience, yet what they mean for a stock's value in the longer term truly relies upon the situation. On the off chance that a company executes a reverse split basically in light of the fact that they need to stay listed on a major exchange — particularly assuming share price used to be well over the $1 edge — investors might consider this to be an indication of distress, and bearish sentiment could drive the company's value down even further.
Then again, if a more current, remarkable new company directs a reverse split to get onto a major exchange interestingly — particularly assuming that its share price on the OTC market has been going up — this should have been visible as a positive signal that the company is extending and invites the increased volume, liquidity, and exposure that accompany the uplisting system.

## Highlights
- In a reverse/forward stock split, shareholders with not exactly the predefined amount of stock are gotten the money for out and the leftover shareholders are recapitalized.
- This strategy cuts administrative costs by lessening the number of shareholders who require sent intermediaries and other reports.
- A reverse/forward stock split is a strategy utilized by companies to wipe out shareholders with under a predefined number of shares.
