---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Statements
title: Return on Sales (ROS)
description: Return on sales (ROS) is a financial ratio used to assess a company&#39;s operational productivity.
---

# Return on Sales (ROS)
## What Is Return on Sales (ROS)?

Return on sales (ROS) is a ratio used to assess a company's operational effectiveness. This measure gives knowledge into how much profit is being delivered per dollar of sales. A rising ROS shows that a company is further developing productivity, while a decreasing ROS could signal looming financial difficulties. ROS is closely connected with a company's [operating profit margin](/operatingmargin).

## Formula and Calculation of Return on Sales (ROS)

Find net sales and operating profit from a company's [income statement](/incomestatement) and fitting the considers along with the formula below:
<span class="katex"><span class="katex-mathml"><math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"><semantics><mtable rowspacing="0.24999999999999992em" columnalign="right left" columnspacing="0em"><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>ROS</mtext><mo>=</mo><mfrac><mtext>Operating Profit</mtext><mtext>Net Sales</mtext></mfrac></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext mathvariant="bold">where:</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>ROS</mtext><mo>=</mo><mtext>Return on sales</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>Operating Profit is calculated as earnings</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr><mtr><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow></mrow></mstyle></mtd><mtd><mstyle scriptlevel="0" displaystyle="true"><mrow><mrow></mrow><mtext>before interest, or EBIT.</mtext></mrow></mstyle></mtd></mtr></mtable><annotation encoding="application/x-tex">\begin{aligned}&amp;\text{ROS} = \frac{\text{Operating Profit}}{\text{Net Sales}}\\&amp;\textbf{where:}\\&amp;\text{ROS}=\text{Return on sales}\\&amp;\text{Operating Profit is calculated as earnings}\\&amp;\text{before interest, or EBIT.}\end{aligned}</annotation></semantics></math></span><span class="katex-html" aria-hidden="true"><span class="base"><span class="strut" style="height:8.35744em;vertical-align:-3.92872em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mtable"><span class="col-align-r"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.42872em;"><span style="top:-6.428719999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-4.60272em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-3.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-1.6027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span><span style="top:-0.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:3.92872em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="col-align-l"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:4.42872em;"><span style="top:-6.428719999999999em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">ROS</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mopen nulldelimiter"></span><span class="mfrac"><span class="vlist-t vlist-t2"><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:1.3714399999999998em;"><span style="top:-2.314em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Net Sales</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.23em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="frac-line" style="border-bottom-width:0.04em;"></span></span><span style="top:-3.677em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Operating Profit</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:0.686em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span><span class="mclose nulldelimiter"></span></span></span></span><span style="top:-4.60272em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord textbf">where:</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-3.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">ROS</span></span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mrel">=</span><span class="mspace" style="margin-right:0.2777777777777778em;"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Return on sales</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-1.6027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">Operating Profit is calculated as earnings</span></span></span></span><span style="top:-0.1027199999999997em;"><span class="pstrut" style="height:3.3714399999999998em;"></span><span class="mord"><span class="mord"></span><span class="mord text"><span class="mord">before interest, or EBIT.</span></span></span></span></span><span class="vlist-s">​</span></span><span class="vlist-r"><span class="vlist" style="height:3.92872em;"><span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span></span>
## Everything Return on Sales Can Say to You

While ascertaining return on sales, investors could notice that a few companies report net sales while others report revenue. Net sales is total revenue minus the credits or refunds paid to customers for merchandise returns. Net sales will probably be listed for companies in the retail industry, while others will list revenue.

Below are the moves toward compute return on sales:

1. Find [net sales](/netsales) on the income statement, yet it can likewise be listed as revenue.
1. Find operating profit on the income statement. Be certain not to incorporate non-operating activities and expenses, for example, taxes and interest expenses.
1. Partition operating profit by net sales.

Return on sales is a financial ratio that works out how efficiently a company is generating profits from its top-line revenue. It measures the performance of a company by investigating the percentage of total revenue that is changed over into operating profits.

The calculation shows how really a company is creating its core products and services and how its management runs the business. Consequently, ROS is utilized as an indicator of both proficiency and profitability. Investors, creditors, and other debt holders depend on this [efficiency ratio](/efficiencyratio) on the grounds that it precisely imparts the percentage of operating cash a company makes on its revenue and gives understanding into expected dividends, reinvestment potential, and the company's ability to repay debt.

ROS is utilized to compare current period calculations with calculations from previous periods. This permits a company to conduct [trend analyses](/trendanalysis) and compare internal productivity performance after some time. It is likewise valuable to compare one company's ROS percentage with that of a contending company, paying little mind to scale.

The comparison makes it simpler to survey the performance of a small company than a [Fortune 500](/fortune500) company. Be that as it may, ROS ought to simply be utilized to compare companies inside similar industry as they shift extraordinarily across industries. A staple chain, for instance, has lower margins and subsequently a lower ROS compared to a technology company.

Return on sales and operating profit margin are frequently used to portray a comparable financial ratio. The principal difference between every utilization lies in the manner their separate formulas are derived. The standard approach to composing the formula for operating margin is operating income partitioned by net sales. Return on sales is very comparable with the exception of the numerator is typically written as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) while the denominator is as yet net sales.

## Illustration of How to Use Return on Sales

For instance, a company that produces $100,000 in sales and requires $90,000 in total costs to create its revenue is less efficient than a company that creates $50,000 in sales however just requires $30,000 in total costs.

ROS is bigger on the off chance that a company's management effectively cuts costs while expanding revenue. Utilizing a similar model, the company with $50,000 in sales and $30,000 in costs has an operating profit of $20,000 and a ROS of 40% ($20,000/$50,000). To increase productivity, it can zero in on expanding sales while steadily expanding expenses, or it can zero in on decreasing expenses while keeping up with or expanding revenue.

## Limitations of Using Return on Sales

Return on sales ought to simply be utilized to compare companies that operate in a similar industry, and preferably among those that have comparative business models and annual sales figures. Companies in various industries with ridiculously unique business models have altogether different operating margins, so contrasting them involving EBIT in the numerator could befuddle.

To make it more straightforward to compare sales productivity between various companies and various industries, numerous analysts utilize a profitability ratio that wipes out the effects of financing, accounting, and tax policies: [earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization](/ebitda) (EBITDA). For instance, by adding back depreciation, the operating margins of big manufacturing firms and heavy industrial companies are more comparable.

EBITDA is once in a while utilized as a proxy for [operating cash flow](/operatingcashflow), on the grounds that it prohibits non-cash expenses, like depreciation. However, EBITDA doesn't rise to cash flow. That is on the grounds that it adapts to no increase in [working capital](/workingcapital) or account for capital necessary expenditures to support production and keep a company's asset base — as operating cash flow does.

## Features
- ROS is calculated by partitioning operating profit by net sales.
- ROS is just valuable while looking at companies in a similar line of business and of generally a similar size.
- Return on sales (ROS) is a measure of how efficiently a company transforms sales into profits.
## FAQ
### What Are the Limitations of Return on Sales?
Return on sales ought to simply be utilized to compare companies that operate in a similar industry, and preferably among those that have comparative business models and annual sales figures. A basic food item chain, for instance, has lower margins and in this manner a lower ROS compared to a technology company. Companies in various industries with ridiculously unique business models have totally different operating margins, so looking at them involving EBIT in the numerator could confound.
### What Is the Difference Between ROS and Operating Margin?
Return on sales and operating profit margin are frequently used to portray a comparable financial ratio. The fundamental difference between every use lies in the manner their particular formulas are derived. The standard approach to composing the formula for operating margin is operating income partitioned by net sales. Return on sales is very comparable with the exception of the numerator is typically written as earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) while the denominator is as yet net sales.
### What Can Return on Sales Tell You?
Return on sales is a financial ratio that works out how efficiently a company is generating profits from its top-line revenue. It measures the performance of a company by dissecting the percentage of total revenue that is changed over into operating profits. ROS is utilized as an indicator of both productivity and profitability as it shows how successfully a company is creating its core products and services and how its management runs the business.
