---
keywords: Investing,Stocks,Investing Basics,Index,Sp 500
title: The S&amp;P 500 Index
description: The Standard and Poor&#39;s 500 index is an amusing name for one of the most outstanding collections of stocks in the world, one that has returned investors around 10 percent every year over long periods of time.
---

# The S&P 500 Index
## What Is the S&P 500 Stock Market Index?
The S&P 500 is a famous stock market index that comprises 500 publicly traded, U.S.- based companies with high market capitalization.
Since the S&P 500 spotlights on companies with high market capitalization (and on the grounds that companies with higher market capitalization hold more weight in the index), its performance is considered by a lot of people to be a decent representation of the performance of the high-market-cap portion of the stock market as a whole. As a matter of fact, numerous investors focus on the index as a measure of the wellbeing of the stock market — and, surprisingly, the U.S. economy — at large.
The S&P 500 is one of many indexes compiled and kept up with by Standard and Poor's Global Ratings, the largest American credit rating agency.
## How Is the S&P 500 Weighted?
The companies followed by the S&P 500 are weighted by float-adjusted market cap, so the higher a company's [market capitalization](/capitalization), the more influence the company's stock price has on the price of the index as a whole. For example, a company with a [float-adjusted market cap](/float-adjusted-market-capitalization) of 50 billion would have five times the representation as a company with a market cap of 10 billion.
**Note:** Market capitalization is the total market value of a company's all's tradable shares. In other words, it is the product of a company's current share price and its number of [outstanding shares](/outstandingshares). Float-adjusted market cap just considers shares that are [available to the public](/floating-stock-the-float) and avoids restricted shares held by company insiders and controlling investors.
## What Companies Are Included in the S&P 500?
The S&P 500 incorporates too many companies to list here, however the main 10 by adjusted market capitalization (as of February fifteenth, 2022) are as per the following:
1. Apple Inc.
1. Microsoft Corporation
1. Amazon.com Inc.
1. Alphabet Inc. Class A
1. Tesla Inc.
1. Alphabet Inc. Class C
1. Meta Inc. Class A
1. NVIDIA Corporation
1. Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Class B
1. Johnson and Johnson

## How Does Standard and Poor's Decide What Companies to Include In the S&P 500?
Just having a high market cap isn't really sufficient to land a company in the S&P 500. There are a number of criteria that must be met to be considered for inclusion.
To be remembered for the index, a company must . . .
- be situated in the U.S.
- have an unadjusted market cap of no less than $13.1 billion.
- have a float-adjusted market cap of no less than $6.55 billion.
- have an investable weight factor of no less than 0.1 (in other words, no less than 10 percent of a company's shares must be accessible for public trading — not held by "insiders").
- have adequate [liquidity](/liquidity) and a reasonable stock price.
- be a decent representation of its sector or industry.
- be a common equity listed on an eligible U.S. exchange.

Over time, Standard and Poor's adds and eliminates companies from the index in light of how great of a fit they are given the above criteria. Hence, a few companies have been remembered for the index for a long time, while others were added all the more as of late. For instance, JPMorgan Chase and Co. has been a part of the index starting around 1975, though Tesla Inc. wasn't added until 2020.
## How Well Does the S&P 500 Reflect the Stock Market in general?
The S&P 500 is believed to be a better measure of the stock market on the loose than, say, the [Dow Jones Industrial Average](/djia) — one of the most seasoned and most notable American [stock indexes](/marketindex) — in light of multiple factors.
In the first place, the DJIA just tracks 30 companies, while the S&P tracks 500. Second, the DJIA weighs company influence by stock price (which doesn't reflect company size), while the S&P weighs companies by market cap (which does). Third, on the grounds that the 500 companies followed by the S&P are probably the largest in the U.S. by market cap, they really address around 3/4 of the American stock market at some random time.
That being said, other indexes that address larger portions of the total market by market cap do exist. The Russel 3,000 and the Wilshire 5,000 are two famous indexes that incorporate a greater amount of the market than the S&P 500.
## For what reason Do Investors Use the S&P 500 as a Benchmark?
Since the S&P addresses such a large portion of the market, numerous investors utilize the index as a representation of the market and a benchmark against which to compare the performance of their own portfolios.
For example, assuming the S&P went up in value by 15 percent over the last 6 months, and an investor's portfolio went up in value by 25, that investor could securely expect that their stock picks beat the market by around 10 percent.
Organizations with publicly traded stock can likewise involve the index as a benchmark against which to compare performance, yet utilizing an industry-explicit index would presumably give more understanding, as growth expectations change essentially between sectors.

## Might You at any point Invest In the S&P 500?
Since it is an index and not a fund, you can't invest in the S&P 500 straightforwardly. There are, be that as it may, a number of publicly traded funds planned explicitly to follow the performance of the S&P 500.
For some investors, particularly hands-off investors who believe that their accounts should dominate [inflation](/inflation) and develop with the market yet don't have any desire to actively pick their own stocks, investing in a fund that tracks a bellwether index (an index that is believed to be intelligent of the market) can be a decent approach to develop their savings latently.
A few funds that track indexes are [mutual funds](/mutualfund), and others are [ETFs (exchange-traded funds)](/indexfund). Either of these asset classes might charge fees, and a few funds charge more than others. Brokers may likewise charge fees for trading, albeit some don't. Those wanting to hold long-term need not worry as much about maintenance and trading fees, however more active traders ought to think about these costs.
Generally, lower [expense ratios ](/expense-ratio)(maintenance costs) and higher AUM (assets under management, or how much client money the fund manages), mean better value for fund investors.
## Well known Funds That Track the S&P 500
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Fund</th><th>Ticker</th><th>Expense Ratio</th><th>Assets Under Management</th><th>Minimum Investment</th><th>MF or ETF?</th></tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td>Vanguard 500 Index</td><td>VFIAX</td><td>0.04%</td><td>$262.72B</td><td>$3,000 </td><td>MF</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>SPDR S&P 500</td><td>SPY</td><td>0.0945%</td><td>$409.36B</td><td>N/A ($0)</td><td>ETF</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>iShares Core S&P 500</td><td>IVV</td><td>0.03%</td><td>$304.09B</td><td>N/A ($0)</td><td>ETF</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Fidelity 500 Index Fund</td><td>FXAIX</td><td>0.015%</td><td>$350.3B</td><td>$0.00</td><td>MF</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>Schwab S&P 500 Index Fund</td><td>SWPPX</td><td>0.02%</td><td>$66.5B</td><td>$0.00</td><td>MF</td></tr>
<tr>
<td>State Street S&P 500 Index Fund Class N</td><td>SVSPX</td><td>0.16%</td><td>$1.7B</td><td>$10,000.00</td><td>MF</td></tr>
</tbody>
</table>
The data in this table was last refreshed on October 22nd, 2021. Check each fund's website for modern data.

## What Other Popular Stock Indexes Are There?
The S&P 500 might be one of the most well known wellsprings of data with respect to the market's wellbeing, however it's a long way from the main stock index out there. Other well known and frequently examined indexes incorporate the accompanying.
### The Dow Jones Industrial Average
The DJIA is the second-most established stock index in the U.S. (after the Dow Jones Transportation Average) and perhaps of the most often talked about by the medium. The DJIA is weighted by share price (not market cap) and just tracks 30 companies all at once, so regardless of its age and prevalence, it isn't considered a particularly strong check of the market.
### The Nasdaq Composite
The [Nasdaq Composite](/nasdaqcompositeindex) is another large and well known U.S. stock market index. The index incorporates the majority of the stocks traded on the Nasdaq stock exchange (the second-largest U.S. exchange after the NYSE) and — like the S&P — is weighted by market cap. Since large numbers of the companies remembered for the composite are in the data technology sector, the index dropped strongly in price when the website bubble burst in the mid 2000s.
### The Russel 1,000
The Russel 1,000, similar to the Nasdaq and S&P indexes, is a market-cap-weighted index of companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges. A subset of the larger Russel 3,000, the index incorporates the 1,000 largest companies by market cap and addresses over 90 percent of the market capitalization of all U.S.- listed stocks. In view of its size, numerous investors use it as a benchmark.
### The Wilshire 5,000
The Wilshire 5,000, similar to the Nasdaq, S&P, and Russel indexes, is a market-cap-weighted index of companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges. The Wilshire, in any case, plans to follow all American stocks listed on major exchanges like the NYSE, the Nasdaq, and the American Stock Exchange. Low-value stocks that trade on the over-the-counter (OTC) market are not ordinarily included. Due to this index's size and the way that it encompasses almost the whole American stock market in terms of capitalization, it is likewise involved by numerous investors and institutions as a benchmark against which to compare performance.

## Highlights
- The S&P is a float-weighted index, meaning the market capitalizations of the companies in the index are adjusted by the number of shares accessible for public trading.
- You can't straightforwardly invest in the S&P 500 since it's an index, yet you can invest in one of the many funds that utilization it as a benchmark, tracking its composition and performance.
- The S&P 500 Index highlights 500 leading U.S. publicly traded companies, with a primary accentuation on market capitalization.
- In light of its depth and diversity, the S&P 500 is widely considered one of the most mind-blowing measures of large U.S. stocks, and, surprisingly, the whole equities market.
## FAQ
### How Long Has the S&P 500 Been Around?
The S&P 500 as it currently exists has been around since Monday, March fourth, 1957. It outgrew a 90-stock index that was kept up with by Standard Statistics Company, which merged with Poor's Publishing in 1941.
### What is the meaning of the S&P 500 Went Up or Down by X Points?
Points equivalent dollars. Assuming the S&P 500 went up by 10 yesterday, that means the weighted average market value of its component stocks went up by $10 yesterday. Since the index is weighted by market cap, changes in larger companies' stock prices influence the price of the index more fundamentally than changes in more modest companies' stock prices.
