---
keywords: Personal Finance,Taxes,Tax Laws and Regulations,Federal Taxes,Income,S Corporation,Shareholders,Stock,Taxation
title: S Corporation (S Corp)
description: A S corp meets IRS rules to be taxed under Chapter 1, Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code. Learn assuming a S corp is better than a LLC and that&#39;s only the tip of the iceberg.
---

# S Corporation (S Corp)
## What is a S corporation?
A S corporation is an approach to forming a business so that it pays less tax than different types of corporations. This is finished by allowing shareholders to file their taxes using the company's income and losses as their own. A S corporation has to file as such with the IRS, yet few out of every odd business qualifies and those that really do must comply with certain rules.
## More profound definition
As defined by Subchapter S of the tax code of Internal Revenue Service (IRS), a S corporation is a business entity that has chosen for pass its corporate income, losses, credits and [deductions](/derivation) to its shareholders to remember for their tax forms. As opposed to paying federal income taxes, the shareholders report income and losses on their personal tax returns and are assessed at their individual [income tax](/incometax) rates. The primary benefit of turning into a S corporation is to keep away from double taxation, which is when customary corporations are taxed at the corporate level, and afterward shareholders are taxed at the individual level.
An organization can turn into a S corporation on the off chance that every one of its shareholders sign and submit a copy of Form 2553, Election by a Small Business Corporation, to the IRS. It must meet the accompanying criteria:
1. It is a domestic corporation, leading affairs in its nation of origin.
1. It has something like 100 shareholders.
1. All its shareholders meet IRS qualification requirements.
1. It has just a single class of stock, usually meaning all shares give indistinguishable rights.
1. It's anything but a bank, insurance company or domestic international sales corporation.

Despite the fact that it could be complex and tedious to set up and keep a business' S corporation status, the substantial tax savings could offset the operational process. [The U.S. Small Business Association points](/subchapters) out that S corporations "require scheduled director and shareholder meetings, minutes from those meetings, adoption and updates to by-laws, stock transfers and records maintenance."
Because it's impractical to have in excess of 100 shareholders, each must be qualified for indistinguishable [dividends](/dividend). As a result of this restriction, income and loss are represented by stock ownership, and changing the distribution to specific shareholders is difficult. Moreover, the IRS tax code specifies that the shareholders must pay themselves "reasonable compensation," or fair market value, as it might tax extra corporate income as wage expenses.
## S corporation model
George runs a small banana stand on Newport Beach. His tax attorney advises him that he and his shareholders can save large chunk of change on their taxes by filing as a S corporation. George files Form 2553 by the IRS's cutoff time and qualifies for S corporation status. Despite the strict records maintenance, George's company's shareholders are more joyful than at any other time.

## Highlights
- A S corporation or S corp, also known as a S subchapter, is one type of legal business structure common among small business. A limited liability company (LLC) is another.
- S corporation shareholders must be individuals, specific trusts and estates, or certain tax-exempt organizations. LLCs aren't subject to the same IRS rules administering the number and type of members, who are normally sole proprietors or small groups of professionals.
- Both S corps and LLCs are pass-through entities, meaning they don't pay corporate taxes, and both offer limited liability protection for their owners/principals. In any case, LLCs are more flexible.
- Requirements of a S corp give a corporation with 100 shareholders or less the benefit of incorporation while being taxed as a partnership.
## FAQ
### How Does a S Corp Work?
In numerous ways, a S corp works as any corporation does. Operating under its house state's corporation statutes, it establishes a board of directors and corporate officers, by-laws, and a management structure. It issues shares of company stock. Its owners can't be held personally or monetarily responsible for claims by creditors or against the company.S corps are distinguished by the way that they are not federally taxed on most of the earnings they generate and distribute, passing on more money to pass to shareholders (who in all actuality do pay taxes on the funds, at their common income rates). The funds must be allocated strictly based on the shareholders' equity stake or their number of shares.S corps must restrict their number of shareholders to 100 or less, and these must all be individuals, nonprofits, or trusts. These stockholders, alongside the corporation itself, must be U.S.- based.Come tax time, S corps must distribute the form Schedule K-1 to shareholders, demonstrating their annual profits or losses from the company, and file Form 1120-S with the IRS.
### How could You Choose a S Corporation?
S corporations can be the best of the two worlds for a small business, joining the benefits of corporations with the tax advantages of partnerships.Specifically, S corporations offer the limited liability protection of the corporate structure — meaning a proprietor's personal assets can't be accessed by business creditors or legal claims against the company. Yet, like partnerships, they don't pay corporate taxes on any earnings and income they generate. They can also assist owners with staying away from self-employment tax, in the event that their compensation is structured as a salary or a stock dividend.
### What Is the Difference Between a S Corp and a C Corp?
One key difference between S corps and C corps can be expressed in single word: taxes. In a nutshell, C corps pay them and S corps don't (mostly).C corps pay corporate taxes on their earnings, the manner in which individuals pay income taxes. (In the U.S., corporations are taxed as of now at a flat rate of 21%.) Any dividends or different profits are then distributed to shareholders with after-tax funds. S corps, conversely, are exempt from federal tax on most earnings — there are a couple of exceptions on certain capital gains and passive income — so they can distribute more gains to stockholders.In return for this tax benefit, S corps face certain IRS-ordered restrictions. They and their shareholders must be domestically based. They can have something like 100 shareholders, whose ranks are limited to individuals, nonprofits, trusts, and estates — no institutional investors, at the end of the day. What's more, they can issue just a single class of stock.C corps don't need to consent to any of these restrictions. Generally (however not always) a S corp is smaller than a C corp.
### What Does S Corporation Depend on?
A S corporation is named for Subchapter S of Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code. It has chosen to be taxed under this provision of the IRS code. S corps are also known as S subchapters.
### Which Is Better, a LLC or S Corp?
Whether a LLC or a S corp is better depends on the size and nature of the business and its aspirations for growth.An LLC tends to be ideal for sole proprietors or enterprises with just a couple of partners, due to its flexibility and ease of establishment. In the event that a business is bigger — or aspires to be —, a S corp could work better. S corps have additional financing options: Unlike LLCs, they are permitted to offer equity stakes to investors in return for capital, for instance. What's more, on the off chance that their operations are complex, they would benefit from establishing the formal structures, compliance procedures, and different protocols required of corporations.
