---
keywords: Trading,Trading Skills and Essentials,Trading Basic Education,Trading Skills
title: Trade Signal
description: A trade signal is a trigger, based on technical indicators or a mathematical algorithm, that indicates it is a great time to buy or sell a security.
---

# Trade Signal
## What Is a Trade Signal?

A trade signal is a trigger for action, either to buy or sell a security or other asset, generated by analysis. That analysis can be human generated utilizing [technical indicators](/technicalindicator), or it tends to be generated utilizing mathematical [algorithms](/algorithm) based on market action, possibly in combination with other market factors like economic indicators.

## How a Trade Signal Works

Trade signals can use a variety of inputs from several disciplines. Typically, [technical analysis](/technicalanalysis) is a major component, yet fundamental analysis, [quantitative analysis](/quantitativeanalysis), and economics may likewise be inputs, as well as sentiment measures and even signals from other trade signal systems. The goal is to give investors and traders a mechanical method, devoid of emotion, to buy or sell a security or other asset.

Aside from simple buy and sell triggers, trade signals can likewise be used to change a portfolio by determining when it very well may be a great time to buy more of one particular sector, like technology, and lighten up on another, for example, consumer staples. Bond traders, meanwhile, could have signals for adjusting the duration of their portfolios by selling one [maturity](/maturity) and buying a different maturity. At last, it can likewise help with [asset class](/assetclasses) allocation, like shifting money among stocks, bonds, and gold.

There is no restriction to how complex a trade signal can be. However, [traders](/trader) tend to keep things simple by utilizing just a modest bunch of inputs. For practical purposes, it is far easier to manage a simple signal generator and periodically test it to see which components need adjusting or replacing.

Too many inputs would introduce complexity requiring more time than a trader brings to the table. Furthermore, since markets change over time, often with great speed, complex strategies could be rendered obsolete before testing is even finished.

## Example of a Trade Signal

Trade signals tend to be associated with quick in and out trading. However, in reality, some signals are less frequent and based on reversion and [dip-buying](/buy-the-dips) in equities.

Great trading signals of this sort is search for periods where price action doesn't line up with the underlying [fundamentals](/fundamentals). An example would be in the event that the market is selling off due to fear headlines, however the fundamental data indicates great [health](/monetary health). Traders might decide to buy the dip assuming their signal is blazing "reasonable plan."

## Creating a Trade Signal

There are endless possibilities when concocting a trade signal, however traders tend to just need to automate their reasoning. An example may be, "for a stock with lower than a certain [price-to-earnings ratio](/price-earningsratio) (P/E ratio), buy when a certain technical formation breaks out to the upside, and prices are above a certain moving average while interest rates are falling."

Here are several of the more common inputs. Traders can combine them as they wish to meet whatever criteria they use to select trades.

- [Technical pattern](/pattern) breakout or break down. These can include [triangles](/triangle), rectangles, head-and-shoulders, and trendlines.
- [Moving average](/movingaverage) cross. Most investors watch 50-and 200-day moving averages yet there are numerous others in common use. The input could be when trading activity crosses above or below the average. Or then again it very well may be when two averages cross each other.
- [Volume](/volume) surge. Surprisingly high volume is often a precursor to a new move in the market. In the futures markets, [open interest](/openinterest) can likewise be used.
- [Interest rates](/interestrate). Changes in rates can often suggest changes in stock and commodity markets.
- [Volatility](/volatility). There are numerous ways of measuring volatility and, likewise with other indicators, extreme highs or lows in volatility can trigger market changes.
- [Cycles](/market_cycles). Markets of various kinds tend to ebb and flow over time, even on the off chance that they are in a steady trend or in a non-trending condition. One of the more widely realized cycles is the seasonal cycle for stocks — [sell in May and go away](/sell-in-may-and-disappear) — which could help determine on the off chance that a strategy is operating in the strong or weak half of the year.
- [Sentiment](/marketsentiment) extremes. Used as a [contrarian indicator](/contrarian), excessive bullishness as per surveys or real trading activity can suggest market tops. Conversely, excessive bearishness can lead to market bottoms.
- [Valuation](/valuation). An excessively high valuation compared to market, sector, or stock-specific measures can lead to sell signals.

## Highlights
- They can likewise be used to reconstitute a portfolio and shift sector allocations or take new positions.
- Trading signals are triggers to buy or sell a security based on a pre-determined set of criteria.
- Traders can create trading signals utilizing a variety of criteria, from simple ones, for example, earnings reports and volume surge, to more complex signals that are derived utilizing existing signals.
