---
keywords: Business,Corporate Finance and Accounting,Financial Ratios
title: Trailing FCF
description: Trailing free cash flow (FCF) measures a company&#39;s free cash flow throughout some undefined time frame, typically the previous twelve months.
---

# Trailing FCF
## What Is Trailing Free Cash Flow (FCF)?

Trailing free cash flow (FCF) measures a company's free cash flow throughout some undefined time frame. The cash flow for the [previous 12 months](/ttm) is the most ordinarily utilized figure. A trailing year FCF doesn't need to concur with a company's [fiscal year](/fiscalyear) end; it tends to be calculated anytime all through the company's fiscal year utilizing the financial data from the previous twelve months.

## How Trailing Free Cash Flow (FCF) Works

[Free cash flow](/freecashflow) (FCF) addresses the cash a company generates subsequent to accounting for cash outflows to support operations and keep up with its [capital assets](/capitalasset). Free cash flow is important to investors since it shows how much cash is left finished and accessible to the two creditors and investors after the company has burned through money on its operational expenses and investments in capital. Trailing free cash flow measures the amount of extra cash that has been generated by the company throughout the past year.

The more free cash flow a company has, the more effectively it can pay its creditors and investors and reinvest in itself. A strong trailing free cash flow different can be an indication that a stock is a wise investment when combined with different indications of financial strength, for example, expanding incomes, order and sales growth, controlled selling, general and administrative expenses costs (SG&A), expanding gross profits, and strong [earnings per share](/eps).

> Trailing free cash flow is utilized by investment analysts in working out a company's [free cash flow yield](/freecashflowyield).
>
## Instructions to Calculate Trailing Free Cash Flow (FCF)

Trailing free cash flow can be calculated starting with the previous 12 months' [earnings before interest and taxes](/ebit) (EBIT), then, at that point, duplicating it by [1-(the association's tax rate)]. Depreciation and [amortization expenses](/amortization), which were previously deducted over the period and recorded on the [income statement](/incomestatement), are then added back to the product. Changes in [working capital](/workingcapital) and capital expenditures incurred over the period are then deducted.
<!--A28DFD0562195A6F03A09785A3B87119-->
On the other hand, FCF can be calculated from the [Cash Flow from Operating Activities](/cash-flow-from-operating-activities) section of the Cash Flow Statement.
<!--3C3C00F85A1F5A08E742C0108F333BF3-->
## Features
- Trailing free cash flow (FCF) presents the consequences of a company's cash inflows and outflows throughout some undefined time frame, regularly the prior twelve months.
- Trailing free cash flow is a helpful figure so that investors might be able to perceive how much cash stays with the company subsequent to paying its important operating bills.
- Trailing free cash flow doesn't need to be calculated on a fiscal year.
- Free cash flow can be utilized to reinvest in the company or to pay outer investors and creditors.
