---
keywords: Investing,Bonds,Treasury Bonds
title: Treasury Note
description: What Are Treasury Notes? Giving bonds is one way for a corporation or federal government to fund-raise. Bonds are known as fixed-income securities in light of the fact that
---

# Treasury Note
## What Are Treasury Notes?
Issuing[ bonds](/bond) is one way for a corporation or federal government to fund-raise. Bonds are known as fixed-income[ securities](/security) since they pay the bondholder a fixed sum at a standard interval. The United States Treasury issues several categories of bonds to investors, with timeframes going from just a couple of months to 30 years long. In return for their investment, the Treasury pays the investor back the principal, or **face value**, of the bond along with interest, known as the **yield**.
Treasury notes are **intermediate-term bonds**. Shorter-maturity bonds, for example, Treasury bills, don't offer a yield payout and on second thought sell at a discount. Longer-term bonds, for example, T-bonds, normally have the greatest yields, although they are additionally most susceptible to interest rate risk, which is illustrated by their higher bond[ duration](/duration).
## How Do Treasury Notes Compare with Other Treasury Securities?
There are four categories of[ Treasury securities:](/treasury-securities)
1. **T-bills:** Treasury bills (T-bills) mature in 1 year or less and don't offer a yield. Hence, they are otherwise called [zero-coupon bonds.](/zero-couponbond) Unlike other Treasury securities, these bonds trade at a discount, and that means that their income is generated by giving the bond at a discounted price compared to its face value.
1. **T-notes:** Treasury notes (T-notes) mature in 2, 3, 5, 7, or 10 years. They make interest payments twice per year, at a fixed rate, which doesn't change.
1. **T-bonds:** [Treasury bonds (T-bonds)](/treasurybond) mature in 20 or 30 years. These are the longest-term bonds and for the most part sport the highest yields. They additionally display the most[ volatility](/volatility).
1. **TIPS:** The principal of [Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS,](/tips) is indexed to the rate of[ inflation](/inflation) consistently as estimated by the Consumer Price Index (CPI). In environments of high inflation, these bonds are worth more; when there's deflation, they are worth less.[ ](/tips)TIPS likewise offer a yield.

## What Is the Treasury Note Rate? When Is Interest Paid?
Treasury notes make interest payments twice per year. Their yields are set at **Treasury auctions**, which are available to the public. The U.S. Treasury publicizes the dates of the auctions and the details of the Treasury issues, including the amount available for purchase as well as their maturity date.
During these auctions, buyers can place two sorts of bids:
1. **Competitive bids**, which permit the buyer to determine the yield they will accept and
1. **Noncompetitive bids**, where buyers accept yields determined by auction prices.

All Treasury notes with the exception of the 10-Year Treasury are auctioned monthly. The 10-Year Treasury is auctioned quarterly: in February, May, August and November. **Reopenings** take place during the rest of the year, although the issue date and purchase price might fluctuate.
The yield rates resulting from the auctions are posted on the TreasuryDirect website. Investors can likewise see details about impending auctions on the TreasuryDirect website.
Post-auction, all bidders receive a similar yield.
## How Do I Buy Treasury Notes?
The great news about Treasury notes is that you don't have to wait until a Treasury auction to purchase them.
- Noncompetitive bids are sold constantly on the TreasuryDirect website or through a bank or broker.
- Investors can likewise set up a competitive bid through the TreasuryDirect website. They are available through brokers and banks too, but it's memorable's important that relying upon what yield is set at auction, you might not get your preferred Treasury note at the price you want.

Treasury notes can be purchased in multiples of $100.
T-notes are additionally available as part of bond [ETFs](/indexfund) or through money market accounts. Investors can likewise buy Treasury notes through a broker on the secondary market, and who purchase them this way are able to hold them in a retirement account, similar to an IRA.
## How Do I Sell Treasury Notes?
In the event that an investor holds a Treasury note until maturity, they can recover it for cash at face value. TreasuryDirect account holders can have the funds automatically deposited into their bank accounts or reinvested into another Treasury security.
Investors who wish to sell their T-notes prior to maturity can do as such through their bank or broker, but they will be unable to sell them at face value. In addition, they must hold the security for at least 45 days.
## When Do Treasury Notes Mature?
Contingent upon their maturity term, Treasury notes mature between 1 year and 10 years from their issue date.
## What Is a 10-Year Treasury Note? Why Is It Important?
The 10-year Treasury is the most widely quoted Treasury note. Banks use it as a benchmark for calculating mortgage rates.
The 10-Year Treasury, along with the 2-Yield Treasury, are utilized while calculating the slant of the [yield curve](/yieldcurve), which is an important economic indicator. Generally, longer-term bonds have higher yields than shorter-term bonds; when they invert, and yields on the shorter-term Treasury outpace the longer-term Treasury, investors believe this to be an indication of economic instability, one which could likely forespell[ recession](/recession).
## What Are Some Important Features of Treasury Notes?
Investors view Treasury notes as attractive investments since they assist with lessening risk in your overall portfolio, particularly in times of market volatility. They are backed by the "full faith and credit" of the U.S. government, so they are virtually guaranteed never to default. They additionally give safe and standard interest payments and are viewed as [liquid](/liquidity) investments, and that means they can convert effectively to cash.
## Are U.S. Treasury Notes Taxable?
Indeed, interest earned on Treasury notes is taxable at the federal level, but not at the state or neighborhood levels. Finish up and submit form 1099-INT.
## Are Treasury Notes a Good Investment? Is Now a Good Time to Buy Treasury Notes?
TheStreet's Dan Weil accepts 2022's tremendous leap in bond yields might be coming to a close. This is what he says to do next.

## Highlights
- Treasury notes are available either by means of competitive bids, in which an investor indicates the yield, or non-competitive bids, in which the investor accepts whatever yield is determined.
- A Treasury note is a U.S. government debt security with a fixed interest rate and maturity between two and 10 years.
- A Treasury note is just similar to a Treasury bond, except that they have varying maturities — T-bond life expectancies are 20 to 30 years.
