---
keywords: Crypto
title: Vladimir Club
description: Vladimir Club. A term used to portray somebody who has acquired 1% of 1% (0.01%) of the maximum supply of a cryptocurrency.
---

# Vladimir Club
The term "Vladimir Club" was first referenced on BitcoinTalk forum in 2012 and was initially applied to Bitcoin. Client Vladimir suggested that claiming 1% of 1% of the max supply of Bitcoin was smart, and the term Vladimir Club was coined right later. Since the max supply of Bitcoin is 21,000,000 coins, anybody with in excess of 2,100 BTC can be viewed as a member of the Vladimir Club.
In those days, it was a lot less expensive than today to turn into a member of the club. In 2012, one Bitcoin was valued at about $11, which would require a person to invest $23,100 to be viewed as part of the Vladimir Club.
At the point when Bitcoin price was close to $20,000, in late 2017, one would have to invest around $42,000,000 to be considered as part of the Vladimir Club. Starting around 2019, with Bitcoin floating around the $4,000 mark, the threshold is around $8,400,000.
Initially, it was estimated that the maximum number of club members would be 10,000 (assuming all coins were mined and isolated similarly among the members). Notwithstanding, as some Bitcoin holders accumulate a lot larger sums than 2,100 coins, the maximum number of members is fundamentally more modest than that. Moreover, there is an extremely large number of coins that are out of reach, either in light of the fact that the private keys were permanently lost or in light of the fact that they were shipped off invalid addresses and can't be recovered (e.g., the [genesis block](/genesis-block) address).
It is very hard to estimate the number of members the Vladimir that Club presently have on the grounds that numerous Bitcoin holders split their funds into various addresses and furthermore on the grounds that probably the most extravagant addresses might be owned by a similar person. In any case, the number of members of the Vladimir Club is estimated to be somewhere close to 500 and 600 individuals.
Since the Vladimir Club concept turned out to be more famous in the cryptocurrency community, the term is frequently used to allude to other digital forms of money, other than Bitcoin. For example, any person claiming over 1% of 1% of the max supply of the BNB might be viewed as a member of the BNB Vladimir Club.
Taking into account the max supply of BNB of 200,000,000 coins, one would require around 20,000 BNB to be viewed as a member of the club. On the off chance that all BNB coins were similarly distributed, the maximum number of members would be 10,000. Be that as it may, the total supply of BNB is continuously decreasing due to the various coin burn occasions, which will be performed until the [total supply](/total-supply) is in the long run diminished to 100,000,000 coins. Subsequently, the maximum number of BNB Vladimir Club members will diminish fundamentally.
Note that the max supply alludes to the maximum number of coins that can at any point exist (e.g., 200 million for BNB or 21 million for Bitcoin). The total supply, nonetheless, alludes to the coins that were at that point issued and are either circulating on the open markets or locked up. While the max supply is fixed (defined when the cryptocurrency is made), the total supply might change due to burning occasions.
