---
keywords: Crypto
title: Wrapped Ether (WETH)
description: Wrapped Ether (WETH). ERC-20 token addressing Ether at a 1:1 ratio. It permits users to trade ETH to ERC-20 tokens on decentralized platforms.
---

# Wrapped Ether (WETH)
Wrapped Ether (WETH) alludes to the [ERC-20](/erc-20) viable rendition of ether (wrapping ether with other ERC standards is likewise conceivable). WETH can be made by sending ether to a smart contract where the ether is placed on hold, thusly getting the WETH ERC-20 token at a 1:1 ratio. This WETH can subsequently be sent once more into a similar smart contract to be "unwrapped" or reclaimed back for the original ether at a 1:1 ratio.
Ether, being the native currency on the Ethereum blockchain, was made before the ERC-20 standard and others standards were executed; thus ether itself isn't ERC-20 viable and can't be exchanged directly for other ERC-20 tokens in a decentralized way without the intervention of a confided in third party or the expansion of complex technical executions. Rather than executing two connection points (one for ether and one more for ERC-20 tokens) inside a similar smart contract leading to superfluous complexities, designers chose to "wrap" ether to upgrade it to the ERC-20 standard to helpfully handle WETH and other ERC-20's inside a similar contract. Wrapping ether permits the direct, consistent exchange among ether and ERC-20 tokens without the requirement for a confided in third-party and without causing in superfluous risks, for example, surprising errors during transactions coming about because of complex executions. Numerous Ethereum-based [decentralized applications (dApps)](/decentralized-applications-dapps, for example, [decentralized exchange](/decentralized-exchange) platforms use WETH in place of ether to work with the direct and decentralized peer to peer trading between ether in "wrapped structure" and ERC-20 tokens under a similar technical standard. Recent improvements are attempting to have a sanctioned WETH standard that could be utilized by all Ethereum-based dApps.
