---
keywords: Investing,Etfs
title: Yen ETF
description: A yen ETF is an exchange-traded fund that tracks the Japanese yen in the foreign exchange markets.
---

# Yen ETF
## What Is a Yen ETF?

The term yen ETF alludes to a [exchange-traded fund](/etf) (ETF) that tracks the relative value of the [Japanese yen](/jpy-japanese-yen) (JPY) in the foreign exchange (forex) market. This is finished against a single currency or against a basket of different currencies. This is accomplished by investing principally in yen-supported assets, including short-term debt instruments and bonds, or essentially holding the spot currency in interest-bearing accounts. Investing in a yen ETF gives investors exposure and access to the yen without the requirement for forex accounts.

## How Yen ETFs Work

Buying and selling foreign currencies was generally a muddled interaction that elaborate opening up a foreign exchange account. It was a privilege generally reserved for experienced traders with expert information. Yet, ETFs helped change that, making the forex market more accessible to the average investor.

[Currency ETFs](/currency-etf) are pre-bundled investments entrusted with tracking specific currencies similarly that customary ETFs look to reproduce the performance of an index. Like stocks, these vehicles trade on a [stock exchange](/stockmarket) and their prices change over the course of the day as traders buy and sell them.

Yen ETFs track the performance of Japan's currency relative to a single currency (like the U.S. dollar or euro) or against a basket of currencies. Like other currency ETFs, these investments give investors simple and affordable access to trade currencies during the trading day. They additionally allow investors to expand their portfolios and can be utilized to benefit from [arbitrage](/arbitrage) opportunities or to hedge against major economic events.

The portfolios of yen ETFs ordinarily incorporate yen-named [futures contracts](/futurescontract), [debt securities](/debtsecurity), money market funds, and cash deposits. These funds generate income for investors through the performance of the yen against different currencies as well as through interest generated by certain securities in the portfolio. Some yen ETFs match the current [income](/income) earned on the yen assets with a [dividend yield](/dividendyield). Others utilize that income to pay the expenses of dealing with the ETF.

> There are three JPY ETFs that trade in the United States according to VettaFi (formerly ETF Database).
>
## Special Considerations

Investors who hold yen ETFs (or some other currency ETF besides) ought to keep tabs on all major economic data that influence their investments. This incorporates the release of [gross domestic product](/gdp) (GDP), retail sales, industrial production, inflation, [trade balances](/bot), employment figures, interest rates, including scheduled gatherings of the central bank, and the daily news flow while investing in currencies.

Interest rates, inflation, and the country's equity market performance ought to likewise be considered while assessing the relative engaging quality of a foreign currency. With regards to Japan and yen traders, exceptionally low [inflation](/inflation) and low interest rates make the currency generally alluring as a [carry trade](/currencycarrytrade). These low interest rates make it relatively cheap to borrow in yen to fund risk-taking in different currencies that carry higher interest rates.

The [Tankan survey](/tankan) is likewise something that investors might need to consider. Tankan, which is an economic survey of Japanese organizations, is distributed by the [Bank of Japan](/bankofjapan) (BOJ) each quarter. It is utilized to figure out [monetary policy](/monetarypolicy) and, accordingly, frequently moves trading in Japanese stock and currency.

> The majority of the movement in currency markets is directed by interest rates, inflation, a country's economic conditions, and its political stability.
>
## Benefits and Disadvantages of Yen ETFs

There are several conspicuous benefits and disadvantages to investing in yen ETFs — some of which apply to other currency ETFs also.

### Benefits

Investing in foreign currencies empowers investors to safeguard themselves in case their own currency declines in value. Throughout the long term, many have selected the yen, which is the third-most widely traded currency universally behind the U.S. dollar and the [euro](/euro). It is additionally the most widely traded currency in Asia.

The yen is sometimes used to give diversification, as it much of the time trades inversely to other major currencies according to the U.S. dollar. The currency is frequently utilized as a [reserve currency](/reservecurrency) in international transactions and has even developed a reputation as a [safe haven](/safe-haven).

One more factor to consider is that Japan is the world's biggest [creditor](/creditor). There's likewise a prevalent view among traders that investors there will generally dump foreign holdings and get their money back home times of hardship, reinforcing demand for the yen and, in this way, its valuation.

### Hindrances

A few investors consider currency ETFs risky. That is on the grounds that [macroeconomic](/macroeconomics) events influence currency values around the world, even in stable nations like Japan. Erratic natural disasters can likewise have a big impact, a model being the Fukushima disaster in 2011, which caused a flood in the value of the yen, followed by a [recession](/recession).

A small bunch of analysts have questioned the Japanese yen's safe-haven status, highlighting the following issues:

- Japan's [trade deficits](/trade_deficit)
- Nearby [asset managers](/assetmanagement) buying higher-yielding foreign assets
- Japanese companies running out of nice options to convey capital at home

The yen has likewise lost a portion of its shine as a well known carry trade as low-interest rates become commonplace among major economies.

These perceptions act as a wake up call that forex trading isn't a market for the unprepared. Traders must be educated about major foreign currencies and keep up to date with not just the current economic details for a country yet in addition the underpinnings of the separate economies and the special factors that can influence the currencies, for example, [commodity](/commodity) movement or interest rate changes.
<table><tr>
<td style='width:50%'>
<h3>Pros</h3>
<ul>
<li><p>Protects against declines in the home currency</p>
</li>
<li><p>Allows investors to diversify</p>
</li>
<li><p>Japan is world's largest creditor</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
<td style='width:50%'>
<h3>Cons</h3>
<ul>
<li><p>Yen is susceptible to macroeconomic risks</p>
</li>
<li><p>Questionable safe-haven status</p>
</li>
<li><p>Lost luster as popular carry trade</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr></table>
## Instances of Yen ETFs

The most famous yen ETF is the Invesco CurrencyShares Japanese Yen Trust (FXY) with $144.6 million in [assets under management](/aum) (AUM) as of June 30, 2022. FXY was sent off in February 2007 and tries to mirror the price and performance of the yen relative to the USD. It does this by holding yen on deposit. The fund has a [expense ratio](/expenseratio) of 0.40%.

Investors hoping to add yen ETFs to their [portfolios](/portfolio) have several different options, too. Alternatives incorporate the ProShares Ultra Yen ETF (YCL) and ProShares UltraShort Yen ETF (YCS). One thing to note, however, is that these two are [leveraged ETFs](/leveraged-etf), with the last option being a [inverse ETF](/inverse-etf).

## Features
- There are likewise leveraged yen ETFs that give 2x long or short exposure to the USD/JPY movements.
- Some yen ETFs match the current income earned on the yen assets with a dividend yield while others utilize that income to pay the expenses of dealing with the ETF.
- A yen ETF tracks the relative value of Japan's currency against a basket of different currencies or a single currency.
- The ETF invests in futures contracts, debt securities, money market funds, and cash deposits, all essentially held in yen.
- The yen has generally been viewed as a safe haven, meaning it is pursued by investors in times of uplifted geopolitical risk.
## FAQ
### What Is the Main ETF That Trades the Japanese Yen?
The Invesco CurrencyShares Japanese Yen Trust (FXY) is the most common yen ETF which holds physical yen in its account. ProShares additionally offers two yen ETFs — the ProShares Ultra Yen ETF (YCL) and ProShares UltraShort Yen ETF (YCS). These two options, however, are levered. YCL gives 2x long exposure and the YCS gives 2x inverse exposure to the yen.
### How Might I Invest in Yen?
As an ordinary investor, Japanese Yen ETFs are the most straightforward method for gaining access to the yen.
### How Do I Invest in the Nikkei?
American investors can invest in the Nikkei 225 index, Japan's primary equity index, through an ETF. These incorporate:- iShares MSCI Japan ETF (EWJ)- JPMorgan BetaBuilders Japan ETF (BBJP)- WisdomTree Japan Hedged Equity Fund (DXJ)- Franklin FTSE Japan ETF (FLJP)- iShares Currency Hedged MSCI Japan ETF (HEWJ)- WisdomTree Japan SmallCap Dividend Fund (DFJ)- The Xtrackers MSCI Japan Hedged Equity ETF (DBJP)- The iShares JPX-Nikkei 400 ETF (JPXN)
